Capital consists of raw materials, instruments of labour, and means of subsistence of all kinds, which are employed in producing new raw materials, new instruments, and new means of subsistence. All these components of capital are created by labour, products of labour, accumulated labour. Accumulated labour that serves as a means to new production is capital.

So say the economists.
Only under certain conditions does he become a slave. A cotton-spinning machine is a machine for spinning cotton. Only under certain conditions does it become capital. Torn away from these conditions, it is as little capital as gold is itself money, or sugar is the price of sugar.

In the process of production, human beings work not only upon nature, but also upon one another. They produce only by working together in a specified manner and reciprocally exchanging their activities. In order to produce, they enter into definite connections and relations to one another, and only within these social connections and relations does their influence upon nature operate – i.e., does production take place.

These social relations between the producers, and the conditions under which they exchange their activities and share in the total act of production, will naturally vary according to the character of the means of production. With the discover of a new instrument of warfare, the firearm, the whole internal organization of the army was necessarily altered, the relations within which individuals compose an army and can work as an army were transformed, and the relation of different armies to another was likewise changed.

We thus see that the social relations within which individuals produce, the social relations of production, are altered, transformed, with the change and development of the material means of production, of the forces of production. The relations of production in their totality constitute what is called the social relations, society, and, moreover, a society at a definite stage of historical development, a society with peculiar, distinctive characteristics. Ancient society, feudal society, bourgeois (or capitalist) society, are such totalities of relations of production, each of which denotes a particular stage of development in the history of mankind.

Capital also is a social relation of production. It is a bourgeois relation of production, a relation of production of bourgeois society. The means of subsistence, the instruments of labour, the raw materials, of which capital consists – have they not been produced and accumulated under given social conditions, within definite special relations? Are they not employed for new production, under given special conditions, within definite social relations? And does not just the definite social character stamp the products which serve for new production as capital?

Capital consists not only of means of subsistence, instruments of labour, and raw materials, not only as material products; it consists just as much of exchange values. All products of which it consists are commodities. Capital, consequently, is not only a sum of material products, it is a sum of commodities, of exchange values, of social magnitudes. Capital remains the same whether we put cotton in the place of wool, rice in the place of wheat, steamships in the place of railroads, provided only that the cotton, the rice, the steamships – the body of capital – have the same exchange value, the same price, as the wool, the wheat, the railroads, in which it was previously embodied. The bodily form of capital may transform itself continually, while capital does not suffer the least alteration.

But though every capital is a sum of commodities – i.e., of exchange values – it does not follow that every sum of commodities, of exchange values, is capital.

Every sum of exchange values is an exchange value. Each particular exchange value is a sum of exchange values. For example: a house worth 1,000 pounds is an exchange value of 1,000 pounds: a piece of paper worth one penny is a sum of exchange values of 100 1/100ths of a penny. Products which are exchangeable for others are commodities. The definite proportion in which they are exchangeable forms their exchange value, or, expressed in money, their price. The quantity of these products can have no effect on their character as commodities, as representing an exchange value , as having a certain price. Whether a tree be large or small, it remains a tree. Whether we exchange iron in pennyweights or in hundredweights, for other products, does this alter its character: its being a commodity, or exchange value? According to the quantity, it is a commodity of greater or of lesser value, of higher or of lower price.

How then does a sum of commodities, of exchange values, become capital?

Thereby, that as an independent social power – i.e., as the power of a part of society – it preserves itself and multiplies by exchange with direct, living labour-power.

The existence of a class which possesses nothing but the ability to work is a necessary presupposition of capital.

It is only the dominion of past, accumulated, materialized labour over immediate living labour that stamps the accumulated labour with the character of capital.

Capital does not consist in the fact that accumulated labour serves living labour as a means for new production. It consists in the fact that living labour serves accumulated labour as the means of preserving and multiplying its exchange value.

Now, the same general laws which regulate the price of commodities in general, naturally regulate wages, or the price of labour-power. Wages will now rise, now fall, according to the relation of supply and demand, according as competition shapes itself between the buyers of labour-power, the capitalists, and the sellers of labour-power, the workers. The fluctuations of wages correspond to the fluctuation in the price of commodities in general. But within the limits of these fluctuations the price of labour-power will be determined by the cost of production, by the labour-time necessary for production of this commodity: labour-power.

What, then, is the cost of production of labour-power?

It is the cost required for the maintenance of the labourer as a labourer, and for his education and training as a labourer.

Therefore, the shorter the time required for training up to a particular sort of work, the smaller is the cost of production of the worker, the lower is the price of his labour-power, his wages. In those branches of industry in which hardly any period of apprenticeship is necessary and the mere bodily existence of the worker is sufficient, the cost of his production is limited almost exclusively to the commodities necessary for keeping him in working condition. The price of his work will therefore be determined by the price of the necessary means of subsistence.

Here, however, there enters another consideration. The manufacturer who calculates his cost of production and, in accordance with it, the price of the product, takes into account the wear and tear of the instruments of labour. If a machine costs him, for example, 1,000 shillings, and this machine is used up in 10 years, he adds 100 shillings annually to the price of the commodities, in order to be able after 10 years to replace the worn-out machine with a new one. In the same manner, the cost of production of simple labour-power must include the cost of propagation, by means of which the race of workers is enabled to multiply itself, and to replace worn-out workers with new ones. The wear and tear of the worker, therefore, is calculated in the same manner as the wear and tear of the machine.

Thus, the cost of production of simple labour-power amounts to the cost of the existence and propagation of the worker. The price of this cost of existence and propagation constitutes wages. The wages thus determined are called the minimum of wages. This minimum wage, like the determination of the price of commodities in general by cost of production, does not hold good for the single individual, but only for the race. Individual workers, indeed, millions of workers, do not receive enough to be able to exist and to propagate themselves; but the wages of the whole working class adjust themselves, within the limits of their fluctuations, to this minimum.

Now that we have come to an understanding in regard to the most general laws which govern wages, as well as the price of every other commodity, we can examine our subject more particularly.

By the competition between buyers and sellers, by the relation of the demand to the supply, of the call to the offer. The competition by which the price of a commodity is determined is threefold.

The same commodity is offered for sale by various sellers. Whoever sells commodities of the same quality most cheaply, is sure to drive the other sellers from the field and to secure the greatest market for himself. The sellers therefore fight among themselves for the sales, for the market. Each one of them wishes to sell, and to sell as much as possible, and if possible to sell alone, to the exclusion of all other sellers. Each one sells cheaper than the other. Thus there takes place a competition among the sellers which forces down the price of the commodities offered by them.

But there is also a competition among the buyers; this upon its side causes the price of the proffered commodities to rise.

Finally, there is competition between the buyers and the sellers: these wish to purchase as cheaply as possible, those to sell as dearly as possible. The result of this competition between buyers and sellers will depend upon the relations between the two above-mentioned camps of competitors – i.e., upon whether the competition in the army of sellers is stronger. Industry leads two great armies into the field against each other, and each of these again is engaged in a battle among its own troops in its own ranks. The army among whose troops there is less fighting, carries off the victory over the opposing host.

Let us suppose that there are 100 bales of cotton in the market and at the same time purchasers for 1,000 bales of cotton. In this case, the demand is 10 times greater than the supply. Competition among the buyers, then, will be very strong; each of them tries to get hold of one bale, if possible, of the whole 100 bales. This example is no arbitrary supposition. In the history of commerce we have experienced periods of scarcity of cotton, when some capitalists united together and sought to buy up not 100 bales, but the whole cotton supply of the world. In the given case, then, one buyer seeks to drive the others from the field by offering a relatively higher price for the bales of cotton. The cotton sellers, who perceive the troops of the enemy in the most violent contention among themselves, and who therefore are fully assured of the sale of their whole 100 bales, will beware of pulling one another's hair in order to force down the price of cotton at the very moment in which their opponents race with one another to screw it up high. So, all of a sudden, peace reigns in the army of sellers. They stand opposed to the buyers like one man, fold their arms in philosophic contentment and their claims would find no limit did not the offers of even the most importunate of buyers have a very definite limit.

If, then, the supply of a commodity is less than the demand for it, competition among the sellers is very slight, or there may be none at all among them. In the same proportion in which this competition decreases, the competition among the buyers increases. Result: a more or less considerable rise in the prices of commodities.

It is well known that the opposite case, with the opposite result, happens more frequently. Great excess of supply over demand; desperate competition among the sellers, and a lack of buyers; forced sales of commodities at ridiculously low prices.

But what is a rise, and what a fall of prices? What is a high and what a low price? A grain of sand is high when examined through a microscope, and a tower is low when compared with a mountain. And if the price is determined by the relation of supply and demand, by what is the relation of supply and demand determined?

Let us turn to the first worthy citizen we meet. He will not hesitate one moment, but, like Alexander the Great, will cut this metaphysical knot with his multiplication table. He will say to us: "If the production of the commodities which I sell has cost me 100 pounds, and out of the sale of these goods I make 110 pounds – within the year, you understand – that's an honest, sound, reasonable profit. But if in the exchange I receive 120 or 130 pounds, that's a higher profit; and if I should get as much as 200 pounds, that would be an extraordinary, and enormous profit." What is it, then, that serves this citizen as the standard of his profit? The cost of the production of his commodities. If in exchange for these goods he receives a quantity of other goods whose production has cost less, he has lost. If he receives in exchange for his goods a quantity of other goods whose production has cost more, he has gained. And he reckons the falling or rising of the profit according to the degree at which the exchange value of his goods stands, whether above or below his zero – the cost of production.

We have seen how the changing relation of supply and demand causes now a rise, now a fall of prices; now high, now low prices. If the price of a commodity rises considerably owing to a failing supply or a disproportionately growing demand, then the price of some other commodity must have fallen in proportion; for of course the price of a commodity only expresses in money the proportion in which other commodities will be given in exchange for it. If, for example, the price of a yard of silk rises from two to three shillings, the price of silver has fallen in relation to the silk, and in the same way the prices of all other commodities whose prices have remained stationary have fallen in relation to the price of silk. A large quantity of them must be given in exchange in order to obtain the same amount of silk. Now, what will be the consequence of a rise in the price of a particular commodity? A mass of capital will be thrown into the prosperous branch of industry, and this immigration of capital into the provinces of the favored industry will continue until it yields no more than the customary profits, or, rather until the price of its products, owning to overproduction, sinks below the cost of production.

Conversely: if the price of a commodity falls below its cost of production, then capital will be withdrawn from the production of this commodity. Except in the case of a branch of industry which has become obsolete and is therefore doomed to disappear, the production of such a commodity (that is, its supply), will, owning to this flight of capital, continue to decrease until it corresponds to the demand, and the price of the commodity rises again to the level of its cost of production; or, rather, until the supply has fallen below the demand and its price has risen above its cost of production, for the current price of a commodity is always either above or below its cost of production.

We see how capital continually emigrates out of the province of one industry and immigrates into that of another. The high price produces an excessive immigration, and the low price an excessive emigration.

We could show, from another point of view, how not only the supply, but also the demand, is determined by the cost of production. But this would lead us too far away from our subject.

We have just seen how the fluctuation of supply and demand always bring the price of a commodity back to its cost of production. The actual price of a commodity, indeed, stands always above or below the cost of production; but the rise and fall reciprocally balance each other, so that, within a certain period of time, if the ebbs and flows of the industry are reckoned up together, the commodities will be exchanged for one another in accordance with their cost of production. Their price is thus determined by their cost of production.

The determination of price by the cost of production is not to be understood in the sense of the bourgeois economists. The economists say that the average price of commodities equals the cost of production: that is the law. The anarchic movement, in which the rise is compensated for by a fall and the fall by a rise, they regard as an accident. We might just as well consider the fluctuations as the law, and the determination of the price by cost of production as an accident – as is, in fact, done by certain other economists. But it is precisely these fluctuations which, viewed more closely, carry the most frightful devastation in their train, and, like an earthquake, cause bourgeois society to shake to its very foundations – it is precisely these fluctuations that force the price to conform to the cost of production. In the totality of this disorderly movement is to be found its order. In the total course of this industrial anarchy, in this circular movement, competition balances, as it were, the one extravagance by the other.

We thus see that the price of a commodity is indeed determined by its cost of production, but in such a manner that the periods in which the price of these commodities rises above the costs of production are balanced by the periods in which it sinks below the cost of production, and vice versa. Of course this does not hold good for a single given product of an industry, but only for that branch of industry. So also it does not hold good for an individual manufacturer, but only for the whole class of manufacturers.

The determination of price by cost of production is tantamount to the determination of price by the labor-time requisite to the production of a commodity, for the cost of production consists, first of raw materials and wear and tear of tools, etc., i.e., of industrial products whose production has cost a certain number of work-days, which therefore represent a certain amount of labor-time, and, secondly, of direct labor, which is also measured by its duration.

If several workmen were to be asked: "How much wages do you get?", one would reply, "I get two shillings a day", and so on. According to the different branches of industry in which they are employed, they would mention different sums of money that they receive from their respective employers for the completion of a certain task; for example, for weaving a yard of linen, or for setting a page of type. Despite the variety of their statements, they would all agree upon one point: that wages are the amount of money which the capitalist pays for a certain period of work or for a certain amount of work.

Consequently, it appears that the capitalist buys their labour with money, and that for money they sell him their labour. But this is merely an illusion. What they actually sell to the capitalist for money is their labour-power. This labour-power the capitalist buys for a day, a week, a month, etc. And after he has bought it, he uses it up by letting the worker labour during the stipulated time. With the same amount of money with which the capitalist has bought their labour-power (for example, with two shillings) he could have bought a certain amount of sugar or of any other commodity. The two shillings with which he bought 20 pounds of sugar is the price of the 20 pounds of sugar. The two shillings with which he bought 12 hours' use of labour-power, is the price of 12 hours' labour. Labour-power, then, is a commodity, no more, no less so than is the sugar. The first is measured by the clock, the other by the scales.

Their commodity, labour-power, the workers exchange for the commodity of the capitalist, for money, and, moreover, this exchange takes place at a certain ratio. So much money for so long a use of labour-power. For 12 hours' weaving, two shillings. And these two shillings, do they not represent all the other commodities which I can buy for two shillings? Therefore, actually, the worker has exchanged his commodity, labour-power, for commodities of all kinds, and, moreover, at a certain ratio. By giving him two shillings, the capitalist has given him so much meat, so much clothing, so much wood, light, etc., in exchange for his day's work. The two shillings therefore express the relation in which labour-power is exchanged for other commodities, the exchange-value of labour-power.

The exchange value of a commodity estimated in money is called its price. Wages therefore are only a special name for the price of labour-power, and are usually called the price of labour; it is the special name for the price of this peculiar commodity, which has no other repository than human flesh and blood.

Let us take any worker; for example, a weaver. The capitalist supplies him with the loom and yarn. The weaver applies himself to work, and the yarn is turned into cloth. The capitalist takes possession of the cloth and sells it for 20 shillings, for example. Now are the wages of the weaver a share of the cloth, of the 20 shillings, of the product of the work? By no means. Long before the cloth is sold, perhaps long before it is fully woven, the weaver has received his wages. The capitalist, then, does not pay his wages out of the money which he will obtain from the cloth, but out of money already on hand. Just as little as loom and yarn are the product of the weaver to whom they are supplied by the employer, just so little are the commodities which he receives in exchange for his commodity – labour-power – his product. It is possible that the employer found no purchasers at all for the cloth. It is possible that he did not get even the amount of the wages by its sale. It is possible that he sells it very profitably in proportion to the weaver's wages. But all that does not concern the weaver. With a part of his existing wealth, of his capital, the capitalist buys the labour-power of the weaver in exactly the same manner as, with another part of his wealth, he has bought the raw material – the yarn – and the instrument of labour – the loom. After he has made these purchases, and among them belongs the labour-power necessary to the production of the cloth he produces only with raw materials and instruments of labour belonging to him. For our good weaver, too, is one of the instruments of labour, and being in this respect on a par with the loom, he has no more share in the product (the cloth), or in the price of the product, than the loom itself has.

Wages, therefore, are not a share of the worker in the commodities produced by himself. Wages are that part of already existing commodities with which the capitalist buys a certain amount of productive labour-power.

Consequently, labour-power is a commodity which its possessor, the wage-worker, sells to the capitalist. Why does he sell it? It is in order to live.

But the putting of labour-power into action – i.e., the work – is the active expression of the labourer's own life. And this life activity he sells to another person in order to secure the necessary means of life. His life-activity, therefore, is but a means of securing his own existence. He works that he may keep alive. He does not count the labour itself as a part of his life; it is rather a sacrifice of his life. It is a commodity that he has auctioned off to another. The product of his activity, therefore, is not the aim of his activity. What he produces for himself is not the silk that he weaves, not the gold that he draws up the mining shaft, not the palace that he builds. What he produces for himself is wages; and the silk, the gold, and the palace are resolved for him into a certain quantity of necessaries of life, perhaps into a cotton jacket, into copper coins, and into a basement dwelling. And the labourer who for 12 hours long, weaves, spins, bores, turns, builds, shovels, breaks stone, carries hods, and so on – is this 12 hours' weaving, spinning, boring, turning, building, shovelling, stone-breaking, regarded by him as a manifestation of life, as life? Quite the contrary. Life for him begins where this activity ceases, at the table, at the tavern, in bed. The 12 hours' work, on the other hand, has no meaning for him as weaving, spinning, boring, and so on, but only as earnings, which enable him to sit down at a table, to take his seat in the tavern, and to lie down in a bed. If the silk-worm's object in spinning were to prolong its existence as caterpillar, it would be a perfect example of a wage-worker.

Labour-power was not always a commodity (merchandise). Labour was not always wage-labour, i.e., free labour. The slave did not sell his labour-power to the slave-owner, any more than the ox sells his labour to the farmer. The slave, together with his labour-power, was sold to his owner once for all. He is a commodity that can pass from the hand of one owner to that of another. He himself is a commodity, but his labour-power is not his commodity. The serf sells only a portion of his labour-power. It is not he who receives wages from the owner of the land; it is rather the owner of the land who receives a tribute from him. The serf belongs to the soil, and to the lord of the soil he brings its fruit. The free labourer, on the other hand, sells his very self, and that by fractions. He auctions off eight, 10, 12, 15 hours of his life, one day like the next, to the highest bidder, to the owner of raw materials, tools, and the means of life – i.e., to the capitalist. The labourer belongs neither to an owner nor to the soil, but eight, 10, 12, 15 hours of his daily life belong to whomsoever buys them. The worker leaves the capitalist, to whom he has sold himself, as often as he chooses, and the capitalist discharges him as often as he sees fit, as soon as he no longer gets any use, or not the required use, out of him. But the worker, whose only source of income is the sale of his labour-power, cannot leave the whole class of buyers, i.e., the capitalist class, unless he gives up his own existence. He does not belong to this or that capitalist, but to the capitalist class; and it is for him to find his man – i.e., to find a buyer in this capitalist class.

Before entering more closely upon the relation of capital to wage-labour, we shall present briefly the most general conditions which come into consideration in the determination of wages.

Wages, as we have seen, are the price of a certain commodity, labour-power. Wages, therefore, are determined by the same laws that determine the price of every other commodity. The question then is, How is the price of a commodity determined?

The history of all hitherto existing society is the history of class struggles.

Freeman and slave, patrician and plebeian, lord and serf, guild-master and journeyman, in a word, oppressor and oppressed, stood in constant opposition to one another, carried on an uninterrupted, now hidden, now open fight, a fight that each time ended, either in a revolutionary reconstitution of society at large, or in the common ruin of the contending classes.

In the earlier epochs of history, we find almost everywhere a complicated arrangement of society into various orders, a manifold gradation of social rank. In ancient Rome we have patricians, knights, plebeians, slaves; in the Middle Ages, feudal lords, vassals, guild-masters, journeymen, apprentices, serfs; in almost all of these classes, again, subordinate gradations.

The modern bourgeois society that has sprouted from the ruins of feudal society has not done away with class antagonisms. It has but established new classes, new conditions of oppression, new forms of struggle in place of the old ones.

Our epoch, the epoch of the bourgeoisie, possesses, however, this distinct feature: it has simplified class antagonisms. Society as a whole is more and more splitting up into two great hostile camps, into two great classes directly facing each other — Bourgeoisie and Proletariat.

From the serfs of the Middle Ages sprang the chartered burghers of the earliest towns. From these burgesses the first elements of the bourgeoisie were developed.

The discovery of America, the rounding of the Cape, opened up fresh ground for the rising bourgeoisie. The East-Indian and Chinese markets, the colonisation of America, trade with the colonies, the increase in the means of exchange and in commodities generally, gave to commerce, to navigation, to industry, an impulse never before known, and thereby, to the revolutionary element in the tottering feudal society, a rapid development.

The feudal system of industry, in which industrial production was monopolised by closed guilds, now no longer sufficed for the growing wants of the new markets. The manufacturing system took its place. The guild-masters were pushed on one side by the manufacturing middle class; division of labour between the different corporate guilds vanished in the face of division of labour in each single workshop.

Meantime the markets kept ever growing, the demand ever rising. Even manufacturer no longer sufficed. Thereupon, steam and machinery revolutionised industrial production. The place of manufacture was taken by the giant, Modern Industry; the place of the industrial middle class by industrial millionaires, the leaders of the whole industrial armies, the modern bourgeois.

Modern industry has established the world market, for which the discovery of America paved the way. This market has given an immense development to commerce, to navigation, to communication by land. This development has, in its turn, reacted on the extension of industry; and in proportion as industry, commerce, navigation, railways extended, in the same proportion the bourgeoisie developed, increased its capital, and pushed into the background every class handed down from the Middle Ages.

We see, therefore, how the modern bourgeoisie is itself the product of a long course of development, of a series of revolutions in the modes of production and of exchange.

Each step in the development of the bourgeoisie was accompanied by a corresponding political advance of that class. An oppressed class under the sway of the feudal nobility, an armed and self-governing association in the medieval commune(4): here independent urban republic (as in Italy and Germany); there taxable “third estate” of the monarchy (as in France); afterwards, in the period of manufacturing proper, serving either the semi-feudal or the absolute monarchy as a counterpoise against the nobility, and, in fact, cornerstone of the great monarchies in general, the bourgeoisie has at last, since the establishment of Modern Industry and of the world market, conquered for itself, in the modern representative State, exclusive political sway. The executive of the modern state is but a committee for managing the common affairs of the whole bourgeoisie.

The bourgeoisie, historically, has played a most revolutionary part.

The bourgeoisie, wherever it has got the upper hand, has put an end to all feudal, patriarchal, idyllic relations. It has pitilessly torn asunder the motley feudal ties that bound man to his “natural superiors”, and has left remaining no other nexus between man and man than naked self-interest, than callous “cash payment”. It has drowned the most heavenly ecstasies of religious fervour, of chivalrous enthusiasm, of philistine sentimentalism, in the icy water of egotistical calculation. It has resolved personal worth into exchange value, and in place of the numberless indefeasible chartered freedoms, has set up that single, unconscionable freedom — Free Trade. In one word, for exploitation, veiled by religious and political illusions, it has substituted naked, shameless, direct, brutal exploitation.

The bourgeoisie has stripped of its halo every occupation hitherto honoured and looked up to with reverent awe. It has converted the physician, the lawyer, the priest, the poet, the man of science, into its paid wage labourers.

The bourgeoisie has torn away from the family its sentimental veil, and has reduced the family relation to a mere money relation.

The bourgeoisie has disclosed how it came to pass that the brutal display of vigour in the Middle Ages, which reactionaries so much admire, found its fitting complement in the most slothful indolence. It has been the first to show what man’s activity can bring about. It has accomplished wonders far surpassing Egyptian pyramids, Roman aqueducts, and Gothic cathedrals; it has conducted expeditions that put in the shade all former Exoduses of nations and crusades.

The bourgeoisie cannot exist without constantly revolutionising the instruments of production, and thereby the relations of production, and with them the whole relations of society. Conservation of the old modes of production in unaltered form, was, on the contrary, the first condition of existence for all earlier industrial classes. Constant revolutionising of production, uninterrupted disturbance of all social conditions, everlasting uncertainty and agitation distinguish the bourgeois epoch from all earlier ones. All fixed, fast-frozen relations, with their train of ancient and venerable prejudices and opinions, are swept away, all new-formed ones become antiquated before they can ossify. All that is solid melts into air, all that is holy is profaned, and man is at last compelled to face with sober senses his real conditions of life, and his relations with his kind.

The need of a constantly expanding market for its products chases the bourgeoisie over the entire surface of the globe. It must nestle everywhere, settle everywhere, establish connexions everywhere.

The bourgeoisie has through its exploitation of the world market given a cosmopolitan character to production and consumption in every country. To the great chagrin of Reactionists, it has drawn from under the feet of industry the national ground on which it stood. All old-established national industries have been destroyed or are daily being destroyed. They are dislodged by new industries, whose introduction becomes a life and death question for all civilised nations, by industries that no longer work up indigenous raw material, but raw material drawn from the remotest zones; industries whose products are consumed, not only at home, but in every quarter of the globe. In place of the old wants, satisfied by the production of the country, we find new wants, requiring for their satisfaction the products of distant lands and climes. In place of the old local and national seclusion and self-sufficiency, we have intercourse in every direction, universal inter-dependence of nations. And as in material, so also in intellectual production. The intellectual creations of individual nations become common property. National one-sidedness and narrow-mindedness become more and more impossible, and from the numerous national and local literatures, there arises a world literature.

The bourgeoisie, by the rapid improvement of all instruments of production, by the immensely facilitated means of communication, draws all, even the most barbarian, nations into civilisation. The cheap prices of commodities are the heavy artillery with which it batters down all Chinese walls, with which it forces the barbarians’ intensely obstinate hatred of foreigners to capitulate. It compels all nations, on pain of extinction, to adopt the bourgeois mode of production; it compels them to introduce what it calls civilisation into their midst, i.e., to become bourgeois themselves. In one word, it creates a world after its own image.

The bourgeoisie has subjected the country to the rule of the towns. It has created enormous cities, has greatly increased the urban population as compared with the rural, and has thus rescued a considerable part of the population from the idiocy of rural life. Just as it has made the country dependent on the towns, so it has made barbarian and semi-barbarian countries dependent on the civilised ones, nations of peasants on nations of bourgeois, the East on the West.

The bourgeoisie keeps more and more doing away with the scattered state of the population, of the means of production, and of property. It has agglomerated population, centralised the means of production, and has concentrated property in a few hands. The necessary consequence of this was political centralisation. Independent, or but loosely connected provinces, with separate interests, laws, governments, and systems of taxation, became lumped together into one nation, with one government, one code of laws, one national class-interest, one frontier, and one customs-tariff.

The bourgeoisie, during its rule of scarce one hundred years, has created more massive and more colossal productive forces than have all preceding generations together. Subjection of Nature’s forces to man, machinery, application of chemistry to industry and agriculture, steam-navigation, railways, electric telegraphs, clearing of whole continents for cultivation, canalisation of rivers, whole populations conjured out of the ground — what earlier century had even a presentiment that such productive forces slumbered in the lap of social labour?

We see then: the means of production and of exchange, on whose foundation the bourgeoisie built itself up, were generated in feudal society. At a certain stage in the development of these means of production and of exchange, the conditions under which feudal society produced and exchanged, the feudal organisation of agriculture and manufacturing industry, in one word, the feudal relations of property became no longer compatible with the already developed productive forces; they became so many fetters. They had to be burst asunder; they were burst asunder.

Into their place stepped free competition, accompanied by a social and political constitution adapted in it, and the economic and political sway of the bourgeois class.

A similar movement is going on before our own eyes. Modern bourgeois society, with its relations of production, of exchange and of property, a society that has conjured up such gigantic means of production and of exchange, is like the sorcerer who is no longer able to control the powers of the nether world whom he has called up by his spells. For many a decade past the history of industry and commerce is but the history of the revolt of modern productive forces against modern conditions of production, against the property relations that are the conditions for the existence of the bourgeois and of its rule. It is enough to mention the commercial crises that by their periodical return put the existence of the entire bourgeois society on its trial, each time more threateningly. In these crises, a great part not only of the existing products, but also of the previously created productive forces, are periodically destroyed. In these crises, there breaks out an epidemic that, in all earlier epochs, would have seemed an absurdity — the epidemic of over-production. Society suddenly finds itself put back into a state of momentary barbarism; it appears as if a famine, a universal war of devastation, had cut off the supply of every means of subsistence; industry and commerce seem to be destroyed; and why? Because there is too much civilisation, too much means of subsistence, too much industry, too much commerce. The productive forces at the disposal of society no longer tend to further the development of the conditions of bourgeois property; on the contrary, they have become too powerful for these conditions, by which they are fettered, and so soon as they overcome these fetters, they bring disorder into the whole of bourgeois society, endanger the existence of bourgeois property. The conditions of bourgeois society are too narrow to comprise the wealth created by them. And how does the bourgeoisie get over these crises? On the one hand by enforced destruction of a mass of productive forces; on the other, by the conquest of new markets, and by the more thorough exploitation of the old ones. That is to say, by paving the way for more extensive and more destructive crises, and by diminishing the means whereby crises are prevented.

The weapons with which the bourgeoisie felled feudalism to the ground are now turned against the bourgeoisie itself.

But not only has the bourgeoisie forged the weapons that bring death to itself; it has also called into existence the men who are to wield those weapons — the modern working class — the proletarians.

In proportion as the bourgeoisie, i.e., capital, is developed, in the same proportion is the proletariat, the modern working class, developed — a class of labourers, who live only so long as they find work, and who find work only so long as their labour increases capital. These labourers, who must sell themselves piecemeal, are a commodity, like every other article of commerce, and are consequently exposed to all the vicissitudes of competition, to all the fluctuations of the market.

Owing to the extensive use of machinery, and to the division of labour, the work of the proletarians has lost all individual character, and, consequently, all charm for the workman. He becomes an appendage of the machine, and it is only the most simple, most monotonous, and most easily acquired knack, that is required of him. Hence, the cost of production of a workman is restricted, almost entirely, to the means of subsistence that he requires for maintenance, and for the propagation of his race. But the price of a commodity, and therefore also of labour, is equal to its cost of production. In proportion, therefore, as the repulsiveness of the work increases, the wage decreases. Nay more, in proportion as the use of machinery and division of labour increases, in the same proportion the burden of toil also increases, whether by prolongation of the working hours, by the increase of the work exacted in a given time or by increased speed of machinery, etc.

Modern Industry has converted the little workshop of the patriarchal master into the great factory of the industrial capitalist. Masses of labourers, crowded into the factory, are organised like soldiers. As privates of the industrial army they are placed under the command of a perfect hierarchy of officers and sergeants. Not only are they slaves of the bourgeois class, and of the bourgeois State; they are daily and hourly enslaved by the machine, by the overlooker, and, above all, by the individual bourgeois manufacturer himself. The more openly this despotism proclaims gain to be its end and aim, the more petty, the more hateful and the more embittering it is.

The less the skill and exertion of strength implied in manual labour, in other words, the more modern industry becomes developed, the more is the labour of men superseded by that of women. Differences of age and sex have no longer any distinctive social validity for the working class. All are instruments of labour, more or less expensive to use, according to their age and sex.

No sooner is the exploitation of the labourer by the manufacturer, so far, at an end, that he receives his wages in cash, than he is set upon by the other portions of the bourgeoisie, the landlord, the shopkeeper, the pawnbroker, etc.

The lower strata of the middle class — the small tradespeople, shopkeepers, and retired tradesmen generally, the handicraftsmen and peasants — all these sink gradually into the proletariat, partly because their diminutive capital does not suffice for the scale on which Modern Industry is carried on, and is swamped in the competition with the large capitalists, partly because their specialised skill is rendered worthless by new methods of production. Thus the proletariat is recruited from all classes of the population.

The proletariat goes through various stages of development. With its birth begins its struggle with the bourgeoisie. At first the contest is carried on by individual labourers, then by the workpeople of a factory, then by the operative of one trade, in one locality, against the individual bourgeois who directly exploits them. They direct their attacks not against the bourgeois conditions of production, but against the instruments of production themselves; they destroy imported wares that compete with their labour, they smash to pieces machinery, they set factories ablaze, they seek to restore by force the vanished status of the workman of the Middle Ages.

At this stage, the labourers still form an incoherent mass scattered over the whole country, and broken up by their mutual competition. If anywhere they unite to form more compact bodies, this is not yet the consequence of their own active union, but of the union of the bourgeoisie, which class, in order to attain its own political ends, is compelled to set the whole proletariat in motion, and is moreover yet, for a time, able to do so. At this stage, therefore, the proletarians do not fight their enemies, but the enemies of their enemies, the remnants of absolute monarchy, the landowners, the non-industrial bourgeois, the petty bourgeois. Thus, the whole historical movement is concentrated in the hands of the bourgeoisie; every victory so obtained is a victory for the bourgeoisie.

But with the development of industry, the proletariat not only increases in number; it becomes concentrated in greater masses, its strength grows, and it feels that strength more. The various interests and conditions of life within the ranks of the proletariat are more and more equalised, in proportion as machinery obliterates all distinctions of labour, and nearly everywhere reduces wages to the same low level. The growing competition among the bourgeois, and the resulting commercial crises, make the wages of the workers ever more fluctuating. The increasing improvement of machinery, ever more rapidly developing, makes their livelihood more and more precarious; the collisions between individual workmen and individual bourgeois take more and more the character of collisions between two classes. Thereupon, the workers begin to form combinations (Trades’ Unions) against the bourgeois; they club together in order to keep up the rate of wages; they found permanent associations in order to make provision beforehand for these occasional revolts. Here and there, the contest breaks out into riots.

Now and then the workers are victorious, but only for a time. The real fruit of their battles lies, not in the immediate result, but in the ever expanding union of the workers. This union is helped on by the improved means of communication that are created by modern industry, and that place the workers of different localities in contact with one another. It was just this contact that was needed to centralise the numerous local struggles, all of the same character, into one national struggle between classes. But every class struggle is a political struggle. And that union, to attain which the burghers of the Middle Ages, with their miserable highways, required centuries, the modern proletarian, thanks to railways, achieve in a few years.

This organisation of the proletarians into a class, and, consequently into a political party, is continually being upset again by the competition between the workers themselves. But it ever rises up again, stronger, firmer, mightier. It compels legislative recognition of particular interests of the workers, by taking advantage of the divisions among the bourgeoisie itself. Thus, the ten-hours’ bill in England was carried.

Altogether collisions between the classes of the old society further, in many ways, the course of development of the proletariat. The bourgeoisie finds itself involved in a constant battle. At first with the aristocracy; later on, with those portions of the bourgeoisie itself, whose interests have become antagonistic to the progress of industry; at all time with the bourgeoisie of foreign countries. In all these battles, it sees itself compelled to appeal to the proletariat, to ask for help, and thus, to drag it into the political arena. The bourgeoisie itself, therefore, supplies the proletariat with its own elements of political and general education, in other words, it furnishes the proletariat with weapons for fighting the bourgeoisie.

Further, as we have already seen, entire sections of the ruling class are, by the advance of industry, precipitated into the proletariat, or are at least threatened in their conditions of existence. These also supply the proletariat with fresh elements of enlightenment and progress.

Finally, in times when the class struggle nears the decisive hour, the progress of dissolution going on within the ruling class, in fact within the whole range of old society, assumes such a violent, glaring character, that a small section of the ruling class cuts itself adrift, and joins the revolutionary class, the class that holds the future in its hands. Just as, therefore, at an earlier period, a section of the nobility went over to the bourgeoisie, so now a portion of the bourgeoisie goes over to the proletariat, and in particular, a portion of the bourgeois ideologists, who have raised themselves to the level of comprehending theoretically the historical movement as a whole.

Of all the classes that stand face to face with the bourgeoisie today, the proletariat alone is a really revolutionary class. The other classes decay and finally disappear in the face of Modern Industry; the proletariat is its special and essential product.

The lower middle class, the small manufacturer, the shopkeeper, the artisan, the peasant, all these fight against the bourgeoisie, to save from extinction their existence as fractions of the middle class. They are therefore not revolutionary, but conservative. Nay more, they are reactionary, for they try to roll back the wheel of history. If by chance, they are revolutionary, they are only so in view of their impending transfer into the proletariat; they thus defend not their present, but their future interests, they desert their own standpoint to place themselves at that of the proletariat.

The “dangerous class”, [lumpenproletariat] the social scum, that passively rotting mass thrown off by the lowest layers of the old society, may, here and there, be swept into the movement by a proletarian revolution; its conditions of life, however, prepare it far more for the part of a bribed tool of reactionary intrigue.

In the condition of the proletariat, those of old society at large are already virtually swamped. The proletarian is without property; his relation to his wife and children has no longer anything in common with the bourgeois family relations; modern industry labour, modern subjection to capital, the same in England as in France, in America as in Germany, has stripped him of every trace of national character. Law, morality, religion, are to him so many bourgeois prejudices, behind which lurk in ambush just as many bourgeois interests.

All the preceding classes that got the upper hand sought to fortify their already acquired status by subjecting society at large to their conditions of appropriation. The proletarians cannot become masters of the productive forces of society, except by abolishing their own previous mode of appropriation, and thereby also every other previous mode of appropriation. They have nothing of their own to secure and to fortify; their mission is to destroy all previous securities for, and insurances of, individual property.

All previous historical movements were movements of minorities, or in the interest of minorities. The proletarian movement is the self-conscious, independent movement of the immense majority, in the interest of the immense majority. The proletariat, the lowest stratum of our present society, cannot stir, cannot raise itself up, without the whole superincumbent strata of official society being sprung into the air.

Though not in substance, yet in form, the struggle of the proletariat with the bourgeoisie is at first a national struggle. The proletariat of each country must, of course, first of all settle matters with its own bourgeoisie.

In depicting the most general phases of the development of the proletariat, we traced the more or less veiled civil war, raging within existing society, up to the point where that war breaks out into open revolution, and where the violent overthrow of the bourgeoisie lays the foundation for the sway of the proletariat.

Hitherto, every form of society has been based, as we have already seen, on the antagonism of oppressing and oppressed classes. But in order to oppress a class, certain conditions must be assured to it under which it can, at least, continue its slavish existence. The serf, in the period of serfdom, raised himself to membership in the commune, just as the petty bourgeois, under the yoke of the feudal absolutism, managed to develop into a bourgeois. The modern labourer, on the contrary, instead of rising with the process of industry, sinks deeper and deeper below the conditions of existence of his own class. He becomes a pauper, and pauperism develops more rapidly than population and wealth. And here it becomes evident, that the bourgeoisie is unfit any longer to be the ruling class in society, and to impose its conditions of existence upon society as an over-riding law. It is unfit to rule because it is incompetent to assure an existence to its slave within his slavery, because it cannot help letting him sink into such a state, that it has to feed him, instead of being fed by him. Society can no longer live under this bourgeoisie, in other words, its existence is no longer compatible with society.

The essential conditions for the existence and for the sway of the bourgeois class is the formation and augmentation of capital; the condition for capital is wage-labour. Wage-labour rests exclusively on competition between the labourers. The advance of industry, whose involuntary promoter is the bourgeoisie, replaces the isolation of the labourers, due to competition, by the revolutionary combination, due to association. The development of Modern Industry, therefore, cuts from under its feet the very foundation on which the bourgeoisie produces and appropriates products. What the bourgeoisie therefore produces, above all, are its own grave-diggers. Its fall and the victory of the proletariat are equally inevitable.

In what relation do the Communists stand to the proletarians as a whole?

The Communists do not form a separate party opposed to the other working-class parties.

They have no interests separate and apart from those of the proletariat as a whole.

They do not set up any sectarian principles of their own, by which to shape and mould the proletarian movement.

The Communists are distinguished from the other working-class parties by this only: 1. In the national struggles of the proletarians of the different countries, they point out and bring to the front the common interests of the entire proletariat, independently of all nationality. 2. In the various stages of development which the struggle of the working class against the bourgeoisie has to pass through, they always and everywhere represent the interests of the movement as a whole.

The Communists, therefore, are on the one hand, practically, the most advanced and resolute section of the working-class parties of every country, that section which pushes forward all others; on the other hand, theoretically, they have over the great mass of the proletariat the advantage of clearly understanding the line of march, the conditions, and the ultimate general results of the proletarian movement.

The immediate aim of the Communists is the same as that of all other proletarian parties: formation of the proletariat into a class, overthrow of the bourgeois supremacy, conquest of political power by the proletariat.

The theoretical conclusions of the Communists are in no way based on ideas or principles that have been invented, or discovered, by this or that would-be universal reformer.

They merely express, in general terms, actual relations springing from an existing class struggle, from a historical movement going on under our very eyes. The abolition of existing property relations is not at all a distinctive feature of communism.

All property relations in the past have continually been subject to historical change consequent upon the change in historical conditions.

The French Revolution, for example, abolished feudal property in favour of bourgeois property.

The distinguishing feature of Communism is not the abolition of property generally, but the abolition of bourgeois property. But modern bourgeois private property is the final and most complete expression of the system of producing and appropriating products, that is based on class antagonisms, on the exploitation of the many by the few.

In this sense, the theory of the Communists may be summed up in the single sentence: Abolition of private property.

We Communists have been reproached with the desire of abolishing the right of personally acquiring property as the fruit of a man’s own labour, which property is alleged to be the groundwork of all personal freedom, activity and independence.

Hard-won, self-acquired, self-earned property! Do you mean the property of petty artisan and of the small peasant, a form of property that preceded the bourgeois form? There is no need to abolish that; the development of industry has to a great extent already destroyed it, and is still destroying it daily.

Or do you mean the modern bourgeois private property?

But does wage-labour create any property for the labourer? Not a bit. It creates capital, i.e., that kind of property which exploits wage-labour, and which cannot increase except upon condition of begetting a new supply of wage-labour for fresh exploitation. Property, in its present form, is based on the antagonism of capital and wage labour. Let us examine both sides of this antagonism.

To be a capitalist, is to have not only a purely personal, but a social status in production. Capital is a collective product, and only by the united action of many members, nay, in the last resort, only by the united action of all members of society, can it be set in motion.

Capital is therefore not only personal; it is a social power.

When, therefore, capital is converted into common property, into the property of all members of society, personal property is not thereby transformed into social property. It is only the social character of the property that is changed. It loses its class character.

Let us now take wage-labour.

The average price of wage-labour is the minimum wage, i.e., that quantum of the means of subsistence which is absolutely requisite to keep the labourer in bare existence as a labourer. What, therefore, the wage-labourer appropriates by means of his labour, merely suffices to prolong and reproduce a bare existence. We by no means intend to abolish this personal appropriation of the products of labour, an appropriation that is made for the maintenance and reproduction of human life, and that leaves no surplus wherewith to command the labour of others. All that we want to do away with is the miserable character of this appropriation, under which the labourer lives merely to increase capital, and is allowed to live only in so far as the interest of the ruling class requires it.

In bourgeois society, living labour is but a means to increase accumulated labour. In Communist society, accumulated labour is but a means to widen, to enrich, to promote the existence of the labourer.

In bourgeois society, therefore, the past dominates the present; in Communist society, the present dominates the past. In bourgeois society capital is independent and has individuality, while the living person is dependent and has no individuality.

And the abolition of this state of things is called by the bourgeois, abolition of individuality and freedom! And rightly so. The abolition of bourgeois individuality, bourgeois independence, and bourgeois freedom is undoubtedly aimed at.

By freedom is meant, under the present bourgeois conditions of production, free trade, free selling and buying.

But if selling and buying disappears, free selling and buying disappears also. This talk about free selling and buying, and all the other “brave words” of our bourgeois about freedom in general, have a meaning, if any, only in contrast with restricted selling and buying, with the fettered traders of the Middle Ages, but have no meaning when opposed to the Communistic abolition of buying and selling, of the bourgeois conditions of production, and of the bourgeoisie itself.

You are horrified at our intending to do away with private property. But in your existing society, private property is already done away with for nine-tenths of the population; its existence for the few is solely due to its non-existence in the hands of those nine-tenths. You reproach us, therefore, with intending to do away with a form of property, the necessary condition for whose existence is the non-existence of any property for the immense majority of society.

In one word, you reproach us with intending to do away with your property. Precisely so; that is just what we intend.

From the moment when labour can no longer be converted into capital, money, or rent, into a social power capable of being monopolised, i.e., from the moment when individual property can no longer be transformed into bourgeois property, into capital, from that moment, you say, individuality vanishes.

You must, therefore, confess that by “individual” you mean no other person than the bourgeois, than the middle-class owner of property. This person must, indeed, be swept out of the way, and made impossible.

Communism deprives no man of the power to appropriate the products of society; all that it does is to deprive him of the power to subjugate the labour of others by means of such appropriations.

It has been objected that upon the abolition of private property, all work will cease, and universal laziness will overtake us.

According to this, bourgeois society ought long ago to have gone to the dogs through sheer idleness; for those of its members who work, acquire nothing, and those who acquire anything do not work. The whole of this objection is but another expression of the tautology: that there can no longer be any wage-labour when there is no longer any capital.

All objections urged against the Communistic mode of producing and appropriating material products, have, in the same way, been urged against the Communistic mode of producing and appropriating intellectual products. Just as, to the bourgeois, the disappearance of class property is the disappearance of production itself, so the disappearance of class culture is to him identical with the disappearance of all culture.

That culture, the loss of which he laments, is, for the enormous majority, a mere training to act as a machine.

But don’t wrangle with us so long as you apply, to our intended abolition of bourgeois property, the standard of your bourgeois notions of freedom, culture, law, &c. Your very ideas are but the outgrowth of the conditions of your bourgeois production and bourgeois property, just as your jurisprudence is but the will of your class made into a law for all, a will whose essential character and direction are determined by the economical conditions of existence of your class.

The selfish misconception that induces you to transform into eternal laws of nature and of reason, the social forms springing from your present mode of production and form of property – historical relations that rise and disappear in the progress of production – this misconception you share with every ruling class that has preceded you. What you see clearly in the case of ancient property, what you admit in the case of feudal property, you are of course forbidden to admit in the case of your own bourgeois form of property.

Abolition [Aufhebung] of the family! Even the most radical flare up at this infamous proposal of the Communists.

On what foundation is the present family, the bourgeois family, based? On capital, on private gain. In its completely developed form, this family exists only among the bourgeoisie. But this state of things finds its complement in the practical absence of the family among the proletarians, and in public prostitution.

The bourgeois family will vanish as a matter of course when its complement vanishes, and both will vanish with the vanishing of capital.

Do you charge us with wanting to stop the exploitation of children by their parents? To this crime we plead guilty.

But, you say, we destroy the most hallowed of relations, when we replace home education by social.

And your education! Is not that also social, and determined by the social conditions under which you educate, by the intervention direct or indirect, of society, by means of schools, &c.? The Communists have not invented the intervention of society in education; they do but seek to alter the character of that intervention, and to rescue education from the influence of the ruling class.

The bourgeois clap-trap about the family and education, about the hallowed co-relation of parents and child, becomes all the more disgusting, the more, by the action of Modern Industry, all the family ties among the proletarians are torn asunder, and their children transformed into simple articles of commerce and instruments of labour.

But you Communists would introduce community of women, screams the bourgeoisie in chorus.

The bourgeois sees his wife a mere instrument of production. He hears that the instruments of production are to be exploited in common, and, naturally, can come to no other conclusion that the lot of being common to all will likewise fall to the women.

He has not even a suspicion that the real point aimed at is to do away with the status of women as mere instruments of production.

For the rest, nothing is more ridiculous than the virtuous indignation of our bourgeois at the community of women which, they pretend, is to be openly and officially established by the Communists. The Communists have no need to introduce community of women; it has existed almost from time immemorial.

Our bourgeois, not content with having wives and daughters of their proletarians at their disposal, not to speak of common prostitutes, take the greatest pleasure in seducing each other’s wives.

Bourgeois marriage is, in reality, a system of wives in common and thus, at the most, what the Communists might possibly be reproached with is that they desire to introduce, in substitution for a hypocritically concealed, an openly legalised community of women. For the rest, it is self-evident that the abolition of the present system of production must bring with it the abolition of the community of women springing from that system, i.e., of prostitution both public and private.

The Communists are further reproached with desiring to abolish countries and nationality.

The working men have no country. We cannot take from them what they have not got. Since the proletariat must first of all acquire political supremacy, must rise to be the leading class of the nation, must constitute itself the nation, it is so far, itself national, though not in the bourgeois sense of the word.

National differences and antagonism between peoples are daily more and more vanishing, owing to the development of the bourgeoisie, to freedom of commerce, to the world market, to uniformity in the mode of production and in the conditions of life corresponding thereto.

The supremacy of the proletariat will cause them to vanish still faster. United action, of the leading civilised countries at least, is one of the first conditions for the emancipation of the proletariat.

In proportion as the exploitation of one individual by another will also be put an end to, the exploitation of one nation by another will also be put an end to. In proportion as the antagonism between classes within the nation vanishes, the hostility of one nation to another will come to an end.

The charges against Communism made from a religious, a philosophical and, generally, from an ideological standpoint, are not deserving of serious examination.

Does it require deep intuition to comprehend that man’s ideas, views, and conception, in one word, man’s consciousness, changes with every change in the conditions of his material existence, in his social relations and in his social life?

What else does the history of ideas prove, than that intellectual production changes its character in proportion as material production is changed? The ruling ideas of each age have ever been the ideas of its ruling class.

When people speak of the ideas that revolutionise society, they do but express that fact that within the old society the elements of a new one have been created, and that the dissolution of the old ideas keeps even pace with the dissolution of the old conditions of existence.

When the ancient world was in its last throes, the ancient religions were overcome by Christianity. When Christian ideas succumbed in the 18th century to rationalist ideas, feudal society fought its death battle with the then revolutionary bourgeoisie. The ideas of religious liberty and freedom of conscience merely gave expression to the sway of free competition within the domain of knowledge.

“Undoubtedly,” it will be said, “religious, moral, philosophical, and juridical ideas have been modified in the course of historical development. But religion, morality, philosophy, political science, and law, constantly survived this change.”

“There are, besides, eternal truths, such as Freedom, Justice, etc., that are common to all states of society. But Communism abolishes eternal truths, it abolishes all religion, and all morality, instead of constituting them on a new basis; it therefore acts in contradiction to all past historical experience.”

What does this accusation reduce itself to? The history of all past society has consisted in the development of class antagonisms, antagonisms that assumed different forms at different epochs.

But whatever form they may have taken, one fact is common to all past ages, viz., the exploitation of one part of society by the other. No wonder, then, that the social consciousness of past ages, despite all the multiplicity and variety it displays, moves within certain common forms, or general ideas, which cannot completely vanish except with the total disappearance of class antagonisms.

The Communist revolution is the most radical rupture with traditional property relations; no wonder that its development involved the most radical rupture with traditional ideas.

But let us have done with the bourgeois objections to Communism.

We have seen above, that the first step in the revolution by the working class is to raise the proletariat to the position of ruling class to win the battle of democracy.

The proletariat will use its political supremacy to wrest, by degree, all capital from the bourgeoisie, to centralise all instruments of production in the hands of the State, i.e., of the proletariat organised as the ruling class; and to increase the total productive forces as rapidly as possible.

Of course, in the beginning, this cannot be effected except by means of despotic inroads on the rights of property, and on the conditions of bourgeois production; by means of measures, therefore, which appear economically insufficient and untenable, but which, in the course of the movement, outstrip themselves, necessitate further inroads upon the old social order, and are unavoidable as a means of entirely revolutionising the mode of production.

These measures will, of course, be different in different countries.

Nevertheless, in most advanced countries, the following will be pretty generally applicable.

When, in the course of development, class distinctions have disappeared, and all production has been concentrated in the hands of a vast association of the whole nation, the public power will lose its political character. Political power, properly so called, is merely the organised power of one class for oppressing another. If the proletariat during its contest with the bourgeoisie is compelled, by the force of circumstances, to organise itself as a class, if, by means of a revolution, it makes itself the ruling class, and, as such, sweeps away by force the old conditions of production, then it will, along with these conditions, have swept away the conditions for the existence of class antagonisms and of classes generally, and will thereby have abolished its own supremacy as a class.

In place of the old bourgeois society, with its classes and class antagonisms, we shall have an association, in which the free development of each is the condition for the free development of all.

Owing to their historical position, it became the vocation of the aristocracies of France and England to write pamphlets against modern bourgeois society. In the French Revolution of July 1830, and in the English reform agitation[A], these aristocracies again succumbed to the hateful upstart. Thenceforth, a serious political struggle was altogether out of the question. A literary battle alone remained possible. But even in the domain of literature the old cries of the restoration period had become impossible.(1)

In order to arouse sympathy, the aristocracy was obliged to lose sight, apparently, of its own interests, and to formulate their indictment against the bourgeoisie in the interest of the exploited working class alone. Thus, the aristocracy took their revenge by singing lampoons on their new masters and whispering in his ears sinister prophesies of coming catastrophe.

In this way arose feudal Socialism: half lamentation, half lampoon; half an echo of the past, half menace of the future; at times, by its bitter, witty and incisive criticism, striking the bourgeoisie to the very heart’s core; but always ludicrous in its effect, through total incapacity to comprehend the march of modern history.

The aristocracy, in order to rally the people to them, waved the proletarian alms-bag in front for a banner. But the people, so often as it joined them, saw on their hindquarters the old feudal coats of arms, and deserted with loud and irreverent laughter.

One section of the French Legitimists and “Young England” exhibited this spectacle.

In pointing out that their mode of exploitation was different to that of the bourgeoisie, the feudalists forget that they exploited under circumstances and conditions that were quite different and that are now antiquated. In showing that, under their rule, the modern proletariat never existed, they forget that the modern bourgeoisie is the necessary offspring of their own form of society.

For the rest, so little do they conceal the reactionary character of their criticism that their chief accusation against the bourgeois amounts to this, that under the bourgeois régime a class is being developed which is destined to cut up root and branch the old order of society.

What they upbraid the bourgeoisie with is not so much that it creates a proletariat as that it creates a revolutionary proletariat.

In political practice, therefore, they join in all coercive measures against the working class; and in ordinary life, despite their high-falutin phrases, they stoop to pick up the golden apples dropped from the tree of industry, and to barter truth, love, and honour, for traffic in wool, beetroot-sugar, and potato spirits.(2)

As the parson has ever gone hand in hand with the landlord, so has Clerical Socialism with Feudal Socialism.

Nothing is easier than to give Christian asceticism a Socialist tinge. Has not Christianity declaimed against private property, against marriage, against the State? Has it not preached in the place of these, charity and poverty, celibacy and mortification of the flesh, monastic life and Mother Church? Christian Socialism is but the holy water with which the priest consecrates the heart-burnings of the aristocrat.


B. Petty-Bourgeois Socialism

The feudal aristocracy was not the only class that was ruined by the bourgeoisie, not the only class whose conditions of existence pined and perished in the atmosphere of modern bourgeois society. The medieval burgesses and the small peasant proprietors were the precursors of the modern bourgeoisie. In those countries which are but little developed, industrially and commercially, these two classes still vegetate side by side with the rising bourgeoisie.

In countries where modern civilisation has become fully developed, a new class of petty bourgeois has been formed, fluctuating between proletariat and bourgeoisie, and ever renewing itself as a supplementary part of bourgeois society. The individual members of this class, however, are being constantly hurled down into the proletariat by the action of competition, and, as modern industry develops, they even see the moment approaching when they will completely disappear as an independent section of modern society, to be replaced in manufactures, agriculture and commerce, by overlookers, bailiffs and shopmen.

In countries like France, where the peasants constitute far more than half of the population, it was natural that writers who sided with the proletariat against the bourgeoisie should use, in their criticism of the bourgeois régime, the standard of the peasant and petty bourgeois, and from the standpoint of these intermediate classes, should take up the cudgels for the working class. Thus arose petty-bourgeois Socialism. Sismondi was the head of this school, not only in France but also in England.

This school of Socialism dissected with great acuteness the contradictions in the conditions of modern production. It laid bare the hypocritical apologies of economists. It proved, incontrovertibly, the disastrous effects of machinery and division of labour; the concentration of capital and land in a few hands; overproduction and crises; it pointed out the inevitable ruin of the petty bourgeois and peasant, the misery of the proletariat, the anarchy in production, the crying inequalities in the distribution of wealth, the industrial war of extermination between nations, the dissolution of old moral bonds, of the old family relations, of the old nationalities.

In its positive aims, however, this form of Socialism aspires either to restoring the old means of production and of exchange, and with them the old property relations, and the old society, or to cramping the modern means of production and of exchange within the framework of the old property relations that have been, and were bound to be, exploded by those means. In either case, it is both reactionary and Utopian.

Its last words are: corporate guilds for manufacture; patriarchal relations in agriculture.

Ultimately, when stubborn historical facts had dispersed all intoxicating effects of self-deception, this form of Socialism ended in a miserable fit of the blues.


C. German or “True” Socialism

The Socialist and Communist literature of France, a literature that originated under the pressure of a bourgeoisie in power, and that was the expressions of the struggle against this power, was introduced into Germany at a time when the bourgeoisie, in that country, had just begun its contest with feudal absolutism.

German philosophers, would-be philosophers, and beaux esprits (men of letters), eagerly seized on this literature, only forgetting, that when these writings immigrated from France into Germany, French social conditions had not immigrated along with them. In contact with German social conditions, this French literature lost all its immediate practical significance and assumed a purely literary aspect. Thus, to the German philosophers of the Eighteenth Century, the demands of the first French Revolution were nothing more than the demands of “Practical Reason” in general, and the utterance of the will of the revolutionary French bourgeoisie signified, in their eyes, the laws of pure Will, of Will as it was bound to be, of true human Will generally.

The work of the German literati consisted solely in bringing the new French ideas into harmony with their ancient philosophical conscience, or rather, in annexing the French ideas without deserting their own philosophic point of view.

This annexation took place in the same way in which a foreign language is appropriated, namely, by translation.

It is well known how the monks wrote silly lives of Catholic Saints over the manuscripts on which the classical works of ancient heathendom had been written. The German literati reversed this process with the profane French literature. They wrote their philosophical nonsense beneath the French original. For instance, beneath the French criticism of the economic functions of money, they wrote “Alienation of Humanity”, and beneath the French criticism of the bourgeois state they wrote “Dethronement of the Category of the General”, and so forth.

The introduction of these philosophical phrases at the back of the French historical criticisms, they dubbed “Philosophy of Action”, “True Socialism”, “German Science of Socialism”, “Philosophical Foundation of Socialism”, and so on.

The French Socialist and Communist literature was thus completely emasculated. And, since it ceased in the hands of the German to express the struggle of one class with the other, he felt conscious of having overcome “French one-sidedness” and of representing, not true requirements, but the requirements of Truth; not the interests of the proletariat, but the interests of Human Nature, of Man in general, who belongs to no class, has no reality, who exists only in the misty realm of philosophical fantasy.

This German socialism, which took its schoolboy task so seriously and solemnly, and extolled its poor stock-in-trade in such a mountebank fashion, meanwhile gradually lost its pedantic innocence.

The fight of the Germans, and especially of the Prussian bourgeoisie, against feudal aristocracy and absolute monarchy, in other words, the liberal movement, became more earnest.

By this, the long-wished for opportunity was offered to “True” Socialism of confronting the political movement with the Socialist demands, of hurling the traditional anathemas against liberalism, against representative government, against bourgeois competition, bourgeois freedom of the press, bourgeois legislation, bourgeois liberty and equality, and of preaching to the masses that they had nothing to gain, and everything to lose, by this bourgeois movement. German Socialism forgot, in the nick of time, that the French criticism, whose silly echo it was, presupposed the existence of modern bourgeois society, with its corresponding economic conditions of existence, and the political constitution adapted thereto, the very things those attainment was the object of the pending struggle in Germany.

To the absolute governments, with their following of parsons, professors, country squires, and officials, it served as a welcome scarecrow against the threatening bourgeoisie.

It was a sweet finish, after the bitter pills of flogging and bullets, with which these same governments, just at that time, dosed the German working-class risings.

While this “True” Socialism thus served the government as a weapon for fighting the German bourgeoisie, it, at the same time, directly represented a reactionary interest, the interest of German Philistines. In Germany, the petty-bourgeois class, a relic of the sixteenth century, and since then constantly cropping up again under the various forms, is the real social basis of the existing state of things.

To preserve this class is to preserve the existing state of things in Germany. The industrial and political supremacy of the bourgeoisie threatens it with certain destruction — on the one hand, from the concentration of capital; on the other, from the rise of a revolutionary proletariat. “True” Socialism appeared to kill these two birds with one stone. It spread like an epidemic.

The robe of speculative cobwebs, embroidered with flowers of rhetoric, steeped in the dew of sickly sentiment, this transcendental robe in which the German Socialists wrapped their sorry “eternal truths”, all skin and bone, served to wonderfully increase the sale of their goods amongst such a public.

And on its part German Socialism recognised, more and more, its own calling as the bombastic representative of the petty-bourgeois Philistine.

It proclaimed the German nation to be the model nation, and the German petty Philistine to be the typical man. To every villainous meanness of this model man, it gave a hidden, higher, Socialistic interpretation, the exact contrary of its real character. It went to the extreme length of directly opposing the “brutally destructive” tendency of Communism, and of proclaiming its supreme and impartial contempt of all class struggles. With very few exceptions, all the so-called Socialist and Communist publications that now (1847) circulate in Germany belong to the domain of this foul and enervating literature.(3)



2. Conservative or Bourgeois Socialism

A part of the bourgeoisie is desirous of redressing social grievances in order to secure the continued existence of bourgeois society.

To this section belong economists, philanthropists, humanitarians, improvers of the condition of the working class, organisers of charity, members of societies for the prevention of cruelty to animals, temperance fanatics, hole-and-corner reformers of every imaginable kind. This form of socialism has, moreover, been worked out into complete systems.

We may cite Proudhon’s Philosophie de la Misère as an example of this form.

The Socialistic bourgeois want all the advantages of modern social conditions without the struggles and dangers necessarily resulting therefrom. They desire the existing state of society, minus its revolutionary and disintegrating elements. They wish for a bourgeoisie without a proletariat. The bourgeoisie naturally conceives the world in which it is supreme to be the best; and bourgeois Socialism develops this comfortable conception into various more or less complete systems. In requiring the proletariat to carry out such a system, and thereby to march straightway into the social New Jerusalem, it but requires in reality, that the proletariat should remain within the bounds of existing society, but should cast away all its hateful ideas concerning the bourgeoisie.

A second, and more practical, but less systematic, form of this Socialism sought to depreciate every revolutionary movement in the eyes of the working class by showing that no mere political reform, but only a change in the material conditions of existence, in economical relations, could be of any advantage to them. By changes in the material conditions of existence, this form of Socialism, however, by no means understands abolition of the bourgeois relations of production, an abolition that can be affected only by a revolution, but administrative reforms, based on the continued existence of these relations; reforms, therefore, that in no respect affect the relations between capital and labour, but, at the best, lessen the cost, and simplify the administrative work, of bourgeois government.

Bourgeois Socialism attains adequate expression when, and only when, it becomes a mere figure of speech.

Free trade: for the benefit of the working class. Protective duties: for the benefit of the working class. Prison Reform: for the benefit of the working class. This is the last word and the only seriously meant word of bourgeois socialism.

It is summed up in the phrase: the bourgeois is a bourgeois — for the benefit of the working class.



3. Critical-Utopian Socialism and Communism

We do not here refer to that literature which, in every great modern revolution, has always given voice to the demands of the proletariat, such as the writings of Babeuf and others.

The first direct attempts of the proletariat to attain its own ends, made in times of universal excitement, when feudal society was being overthrown, necessarily failed, owing to the then undeveloped state of the proletariat, as well as to the absence of the economic conditions for its emancipation, conditions that had yet to be produced, and could be produced by the impending bourgeois epoch alone. The revolutionary literature that accompanied these first movements of the proletariat had necessarily a reactionary character. It inculcated universal asceticism and social levelling in its crudest form.

The Socialist and Communist systems, properly so called, those of Saint-Simon, Fourier, Owen, and others, spring into existence in the early undeveloped period, described above, of the struggle between proletariat and bourgeoisie (see Section 1. Bourgeois and Proletarians).

The founders of these systems see, indeed, the class antagonisms, as well as the action of the decomposing elements in the prevailing form of society. But the proletariat, as yet in its infancy, offers to them the spectacle of a class without any historical initiative or any independent political movement.

Since the development of class antagonism keeps even pace with the development of industry, the economic situation, as they find it, does not as yet offer to them the material conditions for the emancipation of the proletariat. They therefore search after a new social science, after new social laws, that are to create these conditions.

Historical action is to yield to their personal inventive action; historically created conditions of emancipation to fantastic ones; and the gradual, spontaneous class organisation of the proletariat to an organisation of society especially contrived by these inventors. Future history resolves itself, in their eyes, into the propaganda and the practical carrying out of their social plans.

In the formation of their plans, they are conscious of caring chiefly for the interests of the working class, as being the most suffering class. Only from the point of view of being the most suffering class does the proletariat exist for them.

The undeveloped state of the class struggle, as well as their own surroundings, causes Socialists of this kind to consider themselves far superior to all class antagonisms. They want to improve the condition of every member of society, even that of the most favoured. Hence, they habitually appeal to society at large, without the distinction of class; nay, by preference, to the ruling class. For how can people, when once they understand their system, fail to see in it the best possible plan of the best possible state of society?

Hence, they reject all political, and especially all revolutionary action; they wish to attain their ends by peaceful means, necessarily doomed to failure, and by the force of example, to pave the way for the new social Gospel.

Such fantastic pictures of future society, painted at a time when the proletariat is still in a very undeveloped state and has but a fantastic conception of its own position, correspond with the first instinctive yearnings of that class for a general reconstruction of society.

But these Socialist and Communist publications contain also a critical element. They attack every principle of existing society. Hence, they are full of the most valuable materials for the enlightenment of the working class. The practical measures proposed in them — such as the abolition of the distinction between town and country, of the family, of the carrying on of industries for the account of private individuals, and of the wage system, the proclamation of social harmony, the conversion of the function of the state into a more superintendence of production — all these proposals point solely to the disappearance of class antagonisms which were, at that time, only just cropping up, and which, in these publications, are recognised in their earliest indistinct and undefined forms only. These proposals, therefore, are of a purely Utopian character.

The significance of Critical-Utopian Socialism and Communism bears an inverse relation to historical development. In proportion as the modern class struggle develops and takes definite shape, this fantastic standing apart from the contest, these fantastic attacks on it, lose all practical value and all theoretical justification. Therefore, although the originators of these systems were, in many respects, revolutionary, their disciples have, in every case, formed mere reactionary sects. They hold fast by the original views of their masters, in opposition to the progressive historical development of the proletariat. They, therefore, endeavour, and that consistently, to deaden the class struggle and to reconcile the class antagonisms. They still dream of experimental realisation of their social Utopias, of founding isolated “phalansteres”, of establishing “Home Colonies”, or setting up a “Little Icaria”(4) — duodecimo editions of the New Jerusalem — and to realise all these castles in the air, they are compelled to appeal to the feelings and purses of the bourgeois. By degrees, they sink into the category of the reactionary [or] conservative Socialists depicted above, differing from these only by more systematic pedantry, and by their fanatical and superstitious belief in the miraculous effects of their social science.

They, therefore, violently oppose all political action on the part of the working class; such action, according to them, can only result from blind unbelief in the new Gospel.

The Owenites in England, and the Fourierists in France, respectively, oppose the Chartists and the Réformistes.

The Communists fight for the attainment of the immediate aims, for the enforcement of the momentary interests of the working class; but in the movement of the present, they also represent and take care of the future of that movement. In France, the Communists ally with the Social-Democrats(1) against the conservative and radical bourgeoisie, reserving, however, the right to take up a critical position in regard to phases and illusions traditionally handed down from the great Revolution.

In Switzerland, they support the Radicals, without losing sight of the fact that this party consists of antagonistic elements, partly of Democratic Socialists, in the French sense, partly of radical bourgeois.

In Poland, they support the party that insists on an agrarian revolution as the prime condition for national emancipation, that party which fomented the insurrection of Cracow in 1846.

In Germany, they fight with the bourgeoisie whenever it acts in a revolutionary way, against the absolute monarchy, the feudal squirearchy, and the petty bourgeoisie.

But they never cease, for a single instant, to instill into the working class the clearest possible recognition of the hostile antagonism between bourgeoisie and proletariat, in order that the German workers may straightway use, as so many weapons against the bourgeoisie, the social and political conditions that the bourgeoisie must necessarily introduce along with its supremacy, and in order that, after the fall of the reactionary classes in Germany, the fight against the bourgeoisie itself may immediately begin.

The Communists turn their attention chiefly to Germany, because that country is on the eve of a bourgeois revolution that is bound to be carried out under more advanced conditions of European civilisation and with a much more developed proletariat than that of England was in the seventeenth, and France in the eighteenth century, and because the bourgeois revolution in Germany will be but the prelude to an immediately following proletarian revolution.

In short, the Communists everywhere support every revolutionary movement against the existing social and political order of things.

In all these movements, they bring to the front, as the leading question in each, the property question, no matter what its degree of development at the time.

Finally, they labour everywhere for the union and agreement of the democratic parties of all countries.

The Communists disdain to conceal their views and aims. They openly declare that their ends can be attained only by the forcible overthrow of all existing social conditions. Let the ruling classes tremble at a Communistic revolution. The proletarians have nothing to lose but their chains. They have a world to win.
23 twitters kings, queens and inbetweens. someone created twitter accounts for the "sherlock" characters with glorious results. meet the woman who only ate starbucks food for an entire year. dog stays with his friend that got hit by a car. watch beyoncé dancing to beyoncé on new year’s eve. the 19 most anticipated science fiction and fantasy books for 2014. 10 quotes from literary geniuses to insipre you. ian mckellen and patrick stewart rang in the new year together. someone is selling an enchanted bbq in australia. 10 things theatre majors are sick of hearing.. the london underground lines in "sherlock" are all wrong. 13 gothic fragrances (for her). here’s the epic johnny football comeback you missed while you were partying. what the critics said about 47 ronin. the emotional roller coaster that is "downton abbey". 13 episodes of "community" to watch before the end of the day. ap photographer dies of heart attack after taking photos at chick-fil-a bowl. 12 important lessons we’ve learned from uncle phil. 11 natural geological formations that are absolutely too weird to be real. 18 gorgeous time lapse videos from across the globe. james avery - unscripted. nostalgia list from the future. the syrian electronic army hacks skype’s social media accounts and blog. these people might live on mars for the rest of their lives, if they’re lucky. the woman who kept falling down - mystery diagnosis. the top 10 reasons why january 1st is actually the worst day of the year. the 15 greatest uncle phil moments on “the fresh prince of bel-air”. 30 songs that will pick you up in 2014, and the year after, and after, and forever more…. a same-sex couple got married atop a giant wedding cake float at the rose parade. 12 surprising facts about netflix. 15 times olivia pope’s season 3 wardrobe made your wardrobe feel inadequate. stereotypical things hipsters like. falling through the cracks - mystery diagnosis. 17 facts about e-cigarettes that might surprise you. 10 twitter gems from neil gaiman before his sabbatical. 23 things only people from sheffield will understand. james avery, uncle phil, from "fresh prince of bel air," fondly remembered on twitter. pastor at de blasio inauguration refers to “plantation called new york city”. mayor bill de blasio chooses his path with uncompromising inauguration. james avery, “fresh prince of bel-air’s” uncle phil, has died. 8 soup and stew recipes to keep you warm all winter long. in colorado, celebrating the first day of legal pot sales. palestinian ambassador killed in strange safe explosion. police investigating georgia man who announced on twitter he was going to rape passed-out girl. your holiday sor-bay: barney miller - happy new year. this horror film created by 8 year olds is priceless. 25 things nobody tells you about your first apartment. two drunk girls live on fox news last night: “we’re gonna f*ck shit up!”. 23 animals who understand exactly how you feel today. iraq war veteran with ptsd becomes the first person to buy weed legally in colorado. babies vary and knitting stretches. this amazing dog with a mustache deserves your complete attention. 31 delicious things to cook in january. a pessimistic view of cosmopolitan’s male body language decoder. twitter reacts to influx of romanians and bulgarians. catfish season 1 triumphs and tragedies. meet the landmine-hunting giant rats of mozambique. 37 celebrities that made you desperately wish you were british. this baby giving jenny mccarthy side-eye was the best part of new year’s eve. bill de blasio sworn in as new york city mayor. your basic snapchat info just got leaked. the most important rapper for every major city. 16 problèmes de riches. 32 powerful and brutally honest tweets from #lifeofamuslimfeminist. powerful dutch video shows how important service dogs can be to veterans with ptsd. the 7 most (unintentionally) homoerotic vintage underwear ads. 17 things twentysomethings wish were true. 19 problems only people with straight hair will understand. polar vortex geyser in subzero temperatures. father of sandy hook shooter says he’ll turn over son’s medical records. 17 things only virgos know to be true. match.com just invited a ton of straight men to gay ski week. 35 reasons why you need to get to know neville longbottom the corgi. 10 unbelievable facts i learned from guinness world records. colorado’s response to stolen 420 signs is awesome. 23 vintage video games you won’t believe exist. christie ally was told on day one lane closures were causing slow ems reponses. protesters and police clash violently in ukraine again. this corgi puppy’s first day at doggy daycare was exhausting. hbo denies "true blood" movie rumors. mormon church says leaders, facilities will not be used for same-sex marriages. 7 car hacks that will change your life. 40 movies that define los angeles. what happened to the actors who played cavin on "the gummi bears"?. 7 sexy things guys do without realizing it. 9 celebrity tweets you missed today. yes, my new year’s goal is to get in shape. 12 books to read while getting sober. 19 celebrity instagrams you need to see this week. 20 things you might not know were invented by women. 25 cats trying to make it through their twenties. spectacular nasa image captures "hand of god". why we should be grateful to have tom hanks walk among us. the polar vortex caused people from maine to watch a lot more porn than usual. 15 grooming hacks that will make your life easier. potatoes: you are doing it wrong. 25 awesomely illustrated netflix envelopes. ‘christmas jammies’ video gets hilariously parodied with new years panties. this amazing mash-up combines two of britain’s greatest cultural gems. the fifth of november. the history of tina fey and amy poehler’s best friendship leads the daily links. whisper app confessions you can probably relate to. hilary duff separates from husband mike comrie. the 35 happiest things that have ever happened. praise pours in for pakistani teenager reported killed while stopping a suspected suicide bomber. 25 reasons your new year’s resolution is going to fail. 6 mildly rude things you would(n’t) consider doing on a bad day. 18 whisper app confessions that are a window to the soul. christie scandal breaks through: leads local newspapers and broadcasts across country. 7 problems women have with india’s first gun for women. booze and broccoli send costco shares soaring. 20 hilarious and ridiculous knock-off toys. 13 pieces of witchcraft that are actually science. 17 things you’re tired of hearing if you’re an only child. this video of a clown burning a live pigeon in front of screaming children will literally ruin your day. utahns rally at capitol in support of marriage equality. aliens on earth - documentary. 8 songs you are ashamed that you love. 15 crucial items you need on your wedding day, according to pinterest. the wolf of wall street: f***ing short version. proof that blue ivy carter is her father’s daughter. 27 signs we are all tina belcher from “bob’s burgers”. 23 of the weirdest songs on soundcloud. how to find your perfect mlbb. "catching fire" is the first film with a female lead to top the annual box office in 40 years. u.s. warns americans over security at sochi olympics. qué significa ser hijo único. 23 fotos que provam que os gatos sem pelos até que são bonitinhos. 19 razones por las que vivir solo es lo mejor. this couple made one of the greatest baby announcement videos you’ll ever see. scandal rocks new york city politics, mayor eats pizza with a fork and knife. 10 "girls" parodies worth watching. 9 feature stories we’re reading this week: a $500 house and the hazards of being female online. why everyone should be talking about cece mcdonald. 19 breathtaking pieces of swag available at the u.s. senate gift shop. 25 things you didn’t know about the movie "fight club". why your newborn is the most ancient human being. 10 weirdest topics on the show games & guns. how animals get high in nature. these adorable puppets teach you that no one is safe from the ravaging effects of time. the abcs of #sochi2014. 24 reasons husbands can’t be trusted to do anything right. 28 reasons clair huxtable is perfection embodied. "the simpsons" tribute to hayao miyazaki is filled with amazing references to his work. thousands of people in west virginia have no water after chemical spill triggers disaster declaration. lobbying talking points show insurer freak-out over potential obamacare provision repeal. 13 times chris hardwick called me out at #tca. 27 regras não ditas sobre ternos que todo homem deveria saber. problems only anxious people will understand. robert rodriguez explains this exclusive “from dusk till dawn: the series” photo. these cute baby foxes were saved from being strangled by a goal net. 2014 philip k. dick award nominees. senate reaches veto-proof majority on iran sanctions. 5 reasons beer pong is stupid, according to charles barkley. la vida antes de tener hijos vs. la vida después de tenerlos. why you should rebuild your twitter feed from scratch. the new yorker is having a field day with the chris christie bridge scandal. 16 brutally honest greeting cards every twentysomething needs. a reporter asked lena dunham why there’s so much nudity on “girls”. brutal new democratic video turns christie’s personality against him. why you should be skeptical of that viral “next generation graphics” video. #mamaspike is the hilarious new meme you need in your life. the 25 cutest corgi puppies currently online. paralyzed dog walking with crocs and braces. watch 5 mouth-watering moments from the "game of thrones" season 4 trailer. proof that children are hilariously uncoordinated. technology of the future. maria menounos at the 2014 variety breakthrough of the year awards in las vegas. kristen bell at the 2014 variety breakthrough of the year awards in las vegas. michelle dockery at the gold and glamour event in los angeles. bella thorne at the gold and glamour event in los angeles. your mental sorbet: “where’s the beef!”. cheryl burke at the 2014 people’s choice awards in l.a.. this is the only “the smiths” shirt that you need to own. ashley rickards at the 2014 people’s choice awards in l.a.. sara bareilles at the 2014 people’s choice awards in l.a.. here’s what kim kardashian and nicole richie looked like during puberty. allison williams at the 2014 people’s choice awards in l.a.. lucy hale at the 2014 people’s choice awards in l.a.. melissa joan hart at the 2014 people’s choice awards in l.a.. naya rivera at the 2014 people’s choice awards in l.a.. anna faris at the 2014 people’s choice awards in l.a.. tv confidential archives: show no. 215 with guests sue kesler, jude bradley and bob herron. the 2 most important photos of glenn frey buying a nudie magazine. 18 maneiras para aproveitar ao máximo os 20 e poucos anos. 32 cosas que las chicas judías no pueden resistir. 17 expressions sexistes qu’on en a marre d’entendre. queen latifah at the 2014 people’s choice awards in l.a.. sarah michelle gellar at the 2014 people’s choice awards in l.a.. nina dobrev at the 2014 people’s choice awards in l.a.. emily deschanel at the 2014 people’s choice awards in l.a.. kat dennings at the 2014 people’s choice awards in l.a.. jessica alba at the 2014 people’s choice awards in l.a.. sandra bullock at the 2014 people’s choice awards in l.a.. heidi klum at the 2014 people’s choice awards in l.a.. malin akerman at the 2014 people’s choice awards in l.a.. jennifer hudson at the 2014 people’s choice awards in l.a.. 25 awesome demolition gifs. this theater’s homemade sign for “the wolf of wall street” is amazing. obama administration to recognize utah same-sex couples’ marriages. 10 teen girls who are toppling dystopian regimes. this guy used a groupon to give his kitten a photo shoot at j.c. penney and oh my god it’s amazing. “30 rock” actor gets engaged to his boyfriend at the taj mahal. “real housewives” finally get the parody series it so deserves. the 19 stages of your phone’s battery life. 18 things the cat of a twentysomething is thinking. jennifer granholm to join obama campaign manager at priorities usa. 24 expensive things that aren’t worth the money. 33 reasons to love the cats of the middle east. the 18 best beer names anyone has come up with. fat people problems. 18 things you’re only afraid of if you live in geneva. tnt basketball crew gets in funky-fresh groove with dank halftime drum circle. our favorite moments of the people choice awards. 22 excelentes razones para seguir bebiendo whisky.. this guy’s plane crash selfie is incredible and also super terrifying. 33 coisas que você provavelmente não sabia sobre os parques da disney. the only question you need to ask yourself today. 28 people who revealed their greatest insecurities in a powerful photography project. 11 downton abbey crafts fit for a castle. the 18 greatest celebrity pixie cuts of the past decade. russian orthodox church spokesman endorses referendum to recriminalize homosexuality. 19 motivos pelos quais viver sozinho é a melhor coisa. kristen wiig has a very awkward first date on "jimmy kimmel live". after the death of their 12-year-old daughter, parents find the letter she wrote to her future self. there is a cafe in london where you pay by the minute, and all the food is free. estas son las mejores películas de cada país. 23 movie moments that scarred you for life as a child. un recordatorio de que las puertas de vidrio siguen siendo la mayor amenaza que enfrenta la humanidad hoy en día. 16 thoughts everyone has while at the gym. 14 celebrity instagrams you may have missed this week. the most disturbing picture of george osborne you’ll see today. meet léa seydoux, your new dream bff. only 74,000 jobs created in december, worst month since january 2011. 6 ways cats show their appreciation for you. john mccain to hold january fundraiser for 2016 reelection. 29 signs you’ve studied abroad in barcelona. transgender love story: arin and katie break up. the nhs have released a new video encouraging people not to go to a & e for non-emergencies. the 17 cutest ways to start your day. if liz lemon and leslie knope co-hosted the golden globes. which part of take me out are you?. everything we know about emma watson’s new rugby player boyfriend. the dangerous human. something quite delightful happened during david attenborough’s reddit ama. baby elephant trying out her trunk. a 24-step guide to falling in love, as written by two 8-year-old girls. french president françois hollande threatens legal action over claims of affair. and now we know when “game of thrones” season 4 will hit uk screens. these grandfathers getting married might just make you well up. how geordie are you?. happy birthday iphone. here are 8 things you killed!. which animal is happiest on a trampoline? a highly scientific investigation. if these celebrity couples had stayed together this is what their children might have looked like. this fish catching a bird in mid-air is a bit scary. announcer throws former nba player under the bus. les 16 livres indispensables selon ernest hemingway. 11 reasons you are stoked for lindsay lohan’s reality show. the 52 stages of a vegas trip. duck selfie picture. watch this incredible footage of wind toppling a ton of new houses. hot male actors at every age. how much nudity is there really on "girls"?. miley cyrus would be proud of this parody. 12 delicious snacks that you will never have the joy of eating again…. squidward tentacles explains why being single is actually the best. one reason to fear a pregnant belly (based on true irrational fears). capital one is in a steamy relationship on twitter. 9 videos you can’t miss this week. the 15 performers you will probably meet on vacation. 12 things not to say to someone with depression. the world’s most expensive paintings. toddler meets her father’s twin for the first time. "orphan black" cast and creators promise a "challenging" second season. 20 signs you need a social media intervention. os estágios de ficar sozinho em casa. 24 señales que las citas no son para ti. this epic parody #sherlock rp convo is still going….. the weekly cherry : a vortex of rodman, porn, bieber and womens’ rights!. earth under water in next 20 years - documentary. this might be the meanest treasure hunt of all time. who gets the best jobs? - documentary. why i can’t say it’s, “the year of…”, anymore. 23 oddly specific netflix categories that only have one show you can watch. directv drops the weather channel in dispute over carriage fees. as melhores 45 fotos perfeitamente sincronizadas. 16 problemas que sólo la gente invisible entenderá. the 10 greatest cats that ever lived. 21 painfully honest cakes for every occasion. the first half of “mad men’s” final season has a premiere date. what marvel did for this deaf boy will warm your heart. facts that make you happy to be you. makes total scents: disney villains as perfume bottles. this adorable “pride and prejudice”-themed engagement is every book lover’s dream. the "baby-sitters club" guide to food. 10 facts you thought were b.s. but are actually true. the most fab and drab celebrity outfits of the week. arbitrator hits alex rodriguez with full-season ban for alleged performance-enhancing drug use. this little girl’s reaction to seeing her father’s twin brother for the first time is priceless. a brief intro to your new olympic sport: slopestyle. 23 football logos redesigned in the style of european soccer logos. funniest rihanna moments. inspiring ad tells the story of deaf nfl player derrick coleman. 24 produtos para os cabelos que realmente funcionam. 23 fotos que prueban que los gatos sin pelo en realidad son adorables. 18 of the dopest rhymes from ’90s kid’s commercials. construction begins for "avatar" themed land at disney’s animal kingdom. 27 stages of meeting someone irl from tinder. sen. mikulski: give the administration time on iran sanctions. 21 meals with tons of protein and no meat. video of ellen degeneres giving portia de rossi a christmas present will give you the feels. 19 basic life skills they should teach in school. 17 things that scare you about babies before you have one. 13 things you don’t have to be afraid of because you live in geneva. someone sent a letter to “the independent” written on a piece of ham. 3 exciting ways to add whole grains to your breakfast. 16 monstrosities from the world’s worst waxwork museum. why do israelis think sharon was the last prime minister who could bring them peace?. ariel sharon, former israeli prime minister, is dead. 16 exemplos de unhas com temática disney que vão lhe deixar sem palavras. 33 cosas que probablemente no sabías acerca de los parques de disney. woody allen’s estranged family reacts to director’s golden globe lifetime achievement award. 10 classic film heroines who are role models for our time. johnny depp looked like every ’90s heartthrob at this year’s golden globes. photobombs of the 2014 golden globes. leonardo dicaprio won a golden globe while looking like a golden god. jared leto invented a new hairstyle at the golden globes. a “girls” lover and hater debate the season 3 premiere. denny’s outline for the new season of “girls” sounds highly entertaining. nobody was more excited about andy samberg winning a golden globe than seth meyers. jennifer lawrence, creeping up on taylor swift at thegoldenglobes. amy poehler wins her first golden globe, everyone rejoices. andy samberg’s acceptance speech for his unexpected win was adorable. amy poehler is tina fey’s ungrateful and embarrassed son at the golden globes. plane mistakenly lands at a tiny airport in missouri. “breaking bad” had a great night at the golden globes. the 17 most dazzling looks from the golden globes. emma thompson downed a martini and threw her shoes on stage because she’s a baller. thai protesters gather to shut down bangkok. 13 things jennifer lawrence looked like at the golden globes. the explosive full "game of thrones" season 4 trailer has arrived. diddy’s 5 most ridiculous moments at the golden globes. white house says iran implementation agreement being kept secret because of the eu. p diddy trying to hug bono was easily the most awkward thing to happen at the golden globes. julia louis-dreyfus and reese witherspoon were the best part of the golden globes. watch tina fey and amy poehler’s opening monologue from the golden globes. republican senator slams robert gates for not “being honest with the american people”. jacqueline bisset gets bleeped during incredibly awkward golden globes acceptance speech. this is what happens when a bunch of strangers take off their pants. all the winners at the 2014 golden globes. 11 reasons why you should travel the usa in an rv. jennifer lawrence photobombed taylor swift on the red carpet and it was tremendous. how the finale of "sherlock" series 3 broke twitter emotionally. e!’s awful "fun facts" about michael j. fox and robert redford have taken over the golden globes pre-show. “parks and rec” mashes up wonderfully with “watchmen”. kerry washington debuts baby bump on golden globes carpet. celebrities on the way to the golden globes. 8 reasons why you should visist saul goodman’s webpage. sarah hyland is rocking very thick eyebrows at the golden globes. fashion on the 2014 golden globes red carpet. watch elizabeth moss flip off e!’s mani-cam. why geordie shore needs to be your next obession. 10 paleo cookie recipes that will blow your mind. 20 times your parents embarrassed you in high school. 24 razões científicas para ficar feliz por estar vivo agora. por qué tuna es el perro más inspirador del internet. a golden globes drinking game that will definitely get you sloshed. 10 brilliant ways to procrastinate now. a pipe burst on the golden globes red carpet. this is #lebroning, the amazing new meme mocking lebron james. what it’s like listening to beyonce in your room by yourself. losing one of my giant legs. iran, world powers set terms for nuclear deal. 10 ways sherlock and sheldon cooper are the exact same person. the 25 best pinterest accounts to follow when planning your wedding. isaac newton: the last magician. cosas que hacen los niños y que sería escalofriante que un adulto las hiciera. new york daily news publisher defends chris christie. 21 ways you are red forman from “that 70’s show”. “lone survivor” pulls in biggest january box office since 2008. 20 signs you’re obsessed with awards season. 23 conflitos reais de quando se tem 23 anos. 5 helpfully unhelpful life advice. the secret world of haute couture. watch a guy on an airplane hilariously fall asleep on his keyboard. west virginia water crisis nears end, says gov. earl ray tomblin. 23 liz lemon items you can buy on etsy. happy new year! time is not money!. places you need to go, animals you need to see. 22 signs you grew up in suffolk. el gato toco y su hermana humana son los alborotadores más adorables de toda la vida. 22 simple ways to start eating healthier this year. terry mcauliffe throws his own party in richmond. this breakdancing teacher redefines what it means to be a cool teacher. 19 absolutely necessary products for lazy people. 50 clever diy ways to organize your entire life. 19 things you probably didn’t know about “pretty woman”. 12 ways fast food companies trick you into eating more junk. i went on a backstreet boys cruise. these incredible snow patterns are made with a compass and a guy’s feet. sam berns, the brave teenager who was the face of progeria — and the patriots’ honorary captain — has died. rob ford went clubbing last night. sainsbury’s responded to a customer on twitter with an endless stream of fish puns. chewbacca is on twitter, and he’s posting fantastic behind-the-scenes "star wars" photos. 14 movies in 2014 that aren’t sequels, prequels, reboots, or adaptations. 14 sinais de que o queijo é o seu único amor verdadeiro. 17 gatos que no entienden el concepto de “horario de verano”. the world’s first bitcoin vault has opened in london. two girls are missing in north london. 21 reasons to be thankful for the godly gift that is zayn malik. gypsy child thieves - documentary. a permit to hunt endangered black rhinos has just been sold at a u.s. auction. 21 plants that will make you wish you didn’t live on this planet anymore. hannah montana character miley stewart’s reactions to miley cyrus. 10 reasons to get out enjoy the snow: starring neville longbottom. 21 signs you belong at an ivy league college. definitive proof that anjelica huston is actually "ahs’s" next supreme. pastor speeds up worship service to catch 49ers game. 25 choses que vous ignorez peut-être au sujet de « fight club ». 13 “adventure time” quotes to get you through a rough day. white house: obamacare “spanglish” story was “over-torqued”. manatee crush monday!. the best questions strangers ask when they end up on stage together. life before marriage vs. life after. over 40 international correspondents demand the release of journalists in egypt. stunning ice sculptures grow in the coldest weather. two friends killed, one injured after going into icy chicago river to retrieve a cell phone. bryan cranston starred in an amateur film because he’s the coolest. 33 "clueless" references you missed as a kid. rep. sean maloney is engaged to his longtime partner, randy florke. two california police officers found not guilty in beating death of homeless man. the 40 greatest fictional teammates of all time. mindy kaling’s college comic strips at dartmouth. 15 whimsically surreal gifs to get lost in. how to survive in new york city. pug vs. baby: the ultimate battle. the mysterious disappearance of avonté oquendo. elisabeth moss at the 71st annual golden globe awards in beverly hills. uma thurman at the 71st annual golden globe awards in beverly hills. 6 informative illustrations of poets and their homes. taylor swift at the 71st annual golden globe awards in beverly hills. 9 celebrity tweets you missed today. jessica chastain at the 71st annual golden globe awards in beverly hills. drew barrymore at the 71st annual golden globe awards in beverly hills. giuliana rancic at the 71st annual golden globe awards in beverly hills. anna gunn at the 71st annual golden globe awards in beverly hills. margot robbie at the 71st annual golden globe awards in beverly hills. aubrey plaza at the 71st annual golden globe awards in beverly hills. emilia clarke at the 71st annual golden globe awards in beverly hills. 9 dream castings for “frozen: the musical”. maria menounos at the 71st annual golden globe awards in beverly hills. zosia mamet at the 71st annual golden globe awards in beverly hills. sarah hyland at the 71st annual golden globe awards in beverly hills. sosie bacon at the 71st annual golden globe awards in beverly hills. leslie mann at the 71st annual golden globe awards in beverly hills. caitlin fitzgerald at the 71st annual golden globe awards in beverly hills. kelly osbourne the 71st annual golden globe awards in beverly hills. emma roberts at the 71st annual golden globe awards in beverly hills. allison williams at the 71st annual golden globe awards in beverly hills. paula patton at the 71st annual golden globe awards in beverly hills. london in 1927 vs. 2013. 45 ways you know you moved from a small town to new york city. the 18 worst things about working in a cinema. 16 supposedly healthy foods with more sugar than a snickers bar. an ode to a younger shia labeouf. why you’ll never make a buzzfeed post. russia expels american journalist. governor left giant bear in bathroom for next governor. the "girls" premiere and the golden globe awards broke seamless. 37 wholesome, healthful recipes. tele-transportation around the world video. charter bids $61.3 billion for time warner cable. ethereal music in 13 genres. 16 more little books for long journeys. unc adviser who claimed ex-basketball player was illiterate says athletes inspire her, are not at fault. this little girl’s hilarious dinner request will make you smile. 25 maneras adecuadas de leer un libro. how twitter responded to shakira’s and rihanna’s collaboration. here’s what emoji would look like in real life. the other time christie was accused of steering million dollar contracts to political-connections. 27 cosas que seguro extrañas de tu infancia en argentina. this steamy love letter to the “man-bun” leads the daily links. alex rodriguez files suit seeking to overturn season-long mlb suspension. this is what it’s like to be rihanna bathing in the ocean. indians wrote these incredibly heartfelt letters asking the supreme court to decriminalize same-sex intercourse. the 25 most iconic moments in purple tinted sunglasses history. “12 years a slave” takes home golden globes’ biggest honor: watch our interview with cast member rob steinberg. 15 tranquil songs you need in your life. google just bought a smart thermostat company for $3.2 billion. chris christie vetoes pro-lgbt bill allowing for easier birth certificate changes. andy cohen’s new beard has made him 1000% hotter. the 13 stages of a culinary disaster. michael douglas joining marvel’s "ant-man" as hank pym. 23 uniquely australian status updates. 22 animales que se han estado escondiendo en el mapa del metro de londres. the baby who smelled like pancakes - mystery diagnosis. “the newsroom” has at last been renewed for a third and final season. why buzzfeed should hire me. 19 things you didn’t know about the movie “the birdcage”. 21 delightful reasons to have more sex. man shot and killed in fight over texting during movie at tampa theater. gabourey sidibe’s response to people being jerks about her weight on twitter is absolutely perfect. 7 websites to get you through the week. 15 ways to eat more feta and be happier in life. our favorite doctor who episode. 14 coisas que você nem percebeu que parou de fazer. batman will be coming to fox’s "gotham" after all. the 9 most unexpected animal sounds. the 23 cutest couples at the golden globes. 8 comidas que comen en los eeuu que están prohibidas en otros países. jesse tyler ferguson donating $10k to australian marriage equality fight. what’s your cheese horoscope?. “white people crazy” is the rap anthem you’ve been waiting for. emma thompson was secretly but not so secretly the best part of the golden globes. 10 comics that capture the anxiety of graduation. 8 reasons to miss gray’s papaya in the west village. there’s nothing really illegal about shutting down an interstate bridge. 8 sexiest bachelors of congress. the “sherlock” season 3 finale caused tumblr to self-destruct. stop everything and watch this kid’s jaw-dropping figure-skating routine. 7 struggles every pale person can understand. british actors reenact the most ridiculous conversations on youtube. 27 ways the capybara is the life of the party. tina fey and amy poehler got a subtle taylor swift dig in at last night’s golden globes.. 25 coisas que você não sabia sobre o filme “clube da luta”. las 21 cosas que sin duda son las peores del mundo. your life in palm beach (as explained by palm beach dogs). 22 things that are f**king metal. you need this remix of destiny’s child’s "bug a boo" in your life. the 10 biggest saves from last night’s golden globes. tell people you listen to nickelback while eating mac and cheese from a box. it’s ok.. how to make a movie about mormon missionaries even agnostics will love. jessica chastain as princess merida is stunning. 29 frases que usamos todos los días traducidas a un pésimo ingles. old men sprinting needs to be the next big thing. how to figure out if he’s boyfriend material. for everyone who believes and knows in their heart that tatiana maslany was robbed. chris christie is facing a federal investigation over his use of sandy relief funds. the definitive 2014 golden globes eyewear ranking. 19 things you miss after graduating college. someone recreated the red room from "twin peaks" in animal crossing. 27 cosas fastidiosas de ser una mujer.. 18 bebês experimentando coisas pela primeira vez. the woman whose flesh was eaten alive - mystery diagnosis. 38 excellent photos from golden globe after parties. denver police shoot man using woman as a human shield outside a 7-eleven. why the british government is going to war with the eu over legal highs. unc adviser faces death threats after claiming ex-basketball player was illiterate. rand paul slammed christie for sandy ads in november. nigerian president signs bill criminalizing same-sex relationships. 6 places that prove deserts are the hottest natural wonders. 15 best dressed men at the golden globes. disney’s “frozen” is headed to broadway. shakira and rihanna’s new single will banish your winter blues. a pastor held a one-minute-long sunday service so he could make the 49ers kickoff. ¿qué animal es el más feliz sobre un trampolín? una  investigación altamente científica. 20 sinais de que você é obcecado com o seu gato. the “24” revival finally has a premiere date. treat yo self to 15 of the best "parks and rec" gifts. 14 great things about being an nfl fan from the uk. nhl goalie makes spectacular save that you have to see to believe. new york rising: 40 years of city life in the photos of larry racioppo. 9 wonderful details from a hundred-year-old map of the london underground. 21 important lessons lumpy space princess taught us about feminism. pros and cons of e-books. 14 emotions you’ll feel while job hunting as told by "mean girls". mewbacca, the wookiee cat. 15 reasons camels are nightmare creatures from hell. 21 people who are secretly poetic geniuses. 29 celebrity instagrams from the golden globes that you need to see. 14 statistics about sex and dating that might surprise you. 35 amazing behind-the-scenes photos from the original "star wars" trilogy. conservative media powerhouse buys redstate, regnery publishing for $8.5 million. one excited dog. 21 ways naming a baby will drive you crazy. beautiful photos of how a group of farmers chose to honor one of their own after he died of cancer. hedge fund buys stake in jos. a. bank, pressures it to merge with men’s wearhouse. the "shaun of the dead" guide to london. “downton abbey” was incredibly upsetting last night. 25 cosas que no sabías acerca de la película “el club de la pelea”. que animal é mais feliz num trampolim? uma investigação altamente científica.. the story behind this beautiful photo of maya angelou and amiri baraka dancing. clearly the best way to have watched the golden globes. what does your favorite breakfast food say about you?. the definitive guide to finding the right dead fish on tinder. 10 diy ways to brighten up winter. patrick stewart’s "star trek" and pizza mashup video is straight up genius. 14 reasons why m&m’s world is the oddest attraction in london. after 19 months in men’s prison, cece mcdonald released. 32 things you experience as a foreigner moving to london. the man who ate himself to death - documentary. as 19 fases da bateria do seu celular. las 19 etapas de la vida de la batería de tu teléfono. 19 signs you’re in a relationship with hummus. we drink cow urine. white house lays groundwork for environmental push. alex james is planning to launch a drink called “britpop”. the kardashian guide to victorian etiquette. text messaging is finally in decline as online services take over. the tina fey, amy poehler & taylor swift golden globes slamming saga comes to a ceremonious close.. 19 things from 2004 that will make you feel old. 13 reasons the ocean might never be the same. london underground staff use tube sign to protest against boris johnson. john kerry gave the russian foreign minister two potatoes because why not. the 23 stages of getting a haircut. benedict cumberbatch and michael fassbender had a dance-off at the golden globes. jennifer lawrence kisses nicholas hoult at the golden globes, melts hearts everywhere. ‘hotel california’ - balalaika edition. hundreds attend israel’s state memorial service for ariel sharon. 26 delightful pictures of the london underground in the ’70s and ’80s. yesterday was “no trousers” day on the tube. 17 things you should know before going to mars. these adverts by the norwegian association of the blind are hilarious. a single man went on mumsnet to find a date and got seriously burned. 26 tell-tale symptoms that show you’re suffering from writer’s block. a student spent three months dancing across china to a bruno mars song. how money is made - documentary. 26 things british muslims know to be true. indonesian volcano erupts for first time in 100 years. einstein - documentary. 11 tremendously geeky facts about "goldeneye" on the n64. egypt gets ready to vote “yes” for new constitution because “no” isn’t really seen as an option. this lorde parody hilariously captures what it’s like to be in your thirties. game of thrones season 4 trailer is here!. the 27 best moments from the golden globe awards. amy poehler and tina fey’s best moments of the 2014 golden globes. la mode des golden globes. 14 things celebrities looked like at the golden globes. tous les résultats des golden globes 2014. 20 ways to hold a golden globe. jennifer lawrence’s golden globes dress has all of the internet "lawrencing". this girl’s snapchats of celebrities at the golden globes are bizarre and hilarious. 18 powerful photos of the forgotten indigenous soldiers of world war i. 7 bands you should see at ‘big day out’ that aren’t headlining. hud says audit of chris christie’s sandy ads is “not an investigation”. 50 amazing pieces of robot artwork (part i). meet the doctor who has spent the last 22 years making house calls to the homeless. mcdonald’s secret menu items you need to try. 15 signs you’re addicted to watching netflix. how to ask out a black girl. 22 reasons logan lerman is the greatest without even trying to be. 16 wedding gifts you will get no matter what. spray painting whole body - waxing underarms - eating squid | top challenges #28. 26 lessons you only learn in progressive school. a look at paris under the snow in the early 1900s. ed rendell to attend “ready for hillary” philadelphia fundraiser. 50 highly anticipated films at the 2014 sundance film festival. 8 reasons why leading someone on could be a bad idea. 10 movies that define pittsburgh. why you, personally, need to be rooting for shani davis in sochi. #neknomination is the viral drinking game you definitely shouldn’t try at home. dozens die of starvation in one of syria’s largest refugee camps. a mom wrote an amazing letter to the man who sat with her 3-year-old autistic daughter on an airplane. people losing their minds over this terrifying baby prank is unbelievably funny. 3/5 of pentatonix covers “frozen” with an amazing medley.. 16 devilishly fun ways to serve an egg. apple almost built a chain of "cybercafes" in the 1990s. 23 things every gay guy using tinder will go through. a bunch of lawmakers are retiring now that even congress hates congress. this song and video by neo-soul singer tiombe lockhart is magical. 8 celebrity tweets you missed today. space mountain with the lights on is scarier than in the dark. woman struck by vehicle carrying los angeles mayor. super awesome fun time japanese cat show. how the internet is actually stealing our data.. 15 “harry potter” deleted scenes that will give you all the feels. scientists built a computer program to ruthlessly torture robots. former republican party chairman scrubs online history ahead of possible senate run. 13 lessons we could learn from miley cyrus and her mom. ciara is pregnant. this girl’s diary from the ’90s is wonderfully embarrassing. why leonard hofstadter is your perfect nerd man. this is what would happen if david lynch made “skyrim”. a 12-year-old shot and wounded two kids at a new mexico middle school. 19 reasons why buzzfeed should hire me. mark duplass’ guide to sundance film festival success. why chipotle is amazing.. 14 cosas que ni siquiera notaste que dejaste de hacer. the definitive ranking of college dorm room posters. 28 actors who started on “law & order” lead the daily links. stop everything and look at these vines of fluffy puppy tushes. oklahoma ban on same-sex marriages is unconstitutional, federal judge rules. 15 epicly honest bumper stickers that tell it like it is. 38 pets who celebrated “dress your pet up day” in style. 19 inexplicable moments from japanese game shows. 5 foods you think are healthy, but aren’t. this 1980s “dancin’ grannies” workout is a real thing and it is amazing. tumblr turned julia louis-dreyfus and reese witherspoon at the golden globes into the greatest gifset ever. "sonic the hedgehog" rewritten as a family tragedy. these disney themed cakes are going to be the best things you’ve seen all day. jared leto defies all aging logic as the sexiest 42-year-old man on earth. ranking the 5 best telenovela roles of thalía. proof that benedict cumberbatch is in fact a time travelling french woman. gisele freaks out mothers everywhere by driving a quad with her baby in tow. reid still won’t say when iran sanctions could come to a vote as democrats lay low. 23 things you probably didn’t know about pokémon. 24 problemas que sólo los más peludos podrán entender. 44 classic french meals you need to try before you die. 24 foods you can eat after getting your wisdom teeth out. rigby the dog just won “dress your pet up day” by a landslide. tinder: in real life. christie begins state of the state address by apologizing for bridge scandal. 11 stages of the text message breakup. 25 things you didn’t know about the movie "titanic". 37 castillitos de arena para mantenerte entretenido este verano. things you don’t know about legalizing weed. the perks of being a student. these guys cover iconic theme song “i’ll be there for you,” and turn it into a soaring pop ballad. happy “national dress up your pet day” from neville longbottom. returning memories - free music. 15 reasons dating in your early twenties is nearly impossible. an actor playing peter pan stopped the show to adorably propose to wendy. listen to jenny lewis’ new song, as heard on “girls”. if you’re down in the dumps, this spider dancing to “ymca” will cheer you up. french president hollande refused to answer questions about his alleged affair. steve lonegan still wants chris christie’s support amid scandal. welcome to the net neutrality nightmare scenario. the 18 worst types of people on the subway, as explained by dogs. why ‘the brady bunch movie’  is the grooviest 70’s/90’s satire. 35 veces en las que te diste cuenta que las mujeres de “sexo en la ciudad” eran terribles modelos a imitar. obama to visit pope francis. 21 hit songs you might not know were composed by barry mann and cynthia weil. this 6-year-old girl is a breakdancing prodigy. 20 films qui auront vingt ans en 2014. us spending bill removes funding for new embassy in london. 10 signs you’re addicted to cute animals. 10 ramen foods even crazier than the ramen burger. cops raid justin bieber’s house over alleged egg assault, leads to drug bust of bieber buddy. definitive ranking of seeded male players of the australian open by hair. 14 online comics censored in china. billionaire beanie babies creator found guilty of tax evasion. vice has released a five-part documentary on being young and gay in russia. taylor swift’s fans are mad at tina fey and amy poehler again. 11 reasons blair waldorf is the baddest bitch in nyc. dozens arrested for being gay or advocating for lgbt rights in nigeria. judge rejects preliminary approval of nfl’s concussion settlement. lawmakers push administration to release intelligence “black budget” numbers. women breaks ankle spinning wheel on price is right. 13 things you can’t do with a broken arm. this exclusive “bates motel” teaser hints at an even creepier season 2. 16 signs you are at a south asian wedding. the instagrams from the west virginia water crisis are like something out of a horror movie. 19 things that happen when you don’t wear makeup. new evangelical movement seeks split from pro-israel line. peek inside 38 different brooklyn homes from the ’70s. school today vs. when we were kids. ohio catholic school fires gay teacher after he announced his engagement. tell us about yourself(ie): aubrey peeples. 23  19 questions new yorkers ask when visiting los angeles. 25 reasons rihanna is the king of instagram replies. new york post columnist calls newtown shooting a "little convenient massacre". which muppet are you?. 10 best colleges for social butterflies. the 2013 national book critics circle award finalists have been announced. las cosas más alemanas que han ocurrido. wendy williams pulled a martha stewart and uploaded pictures of questionable looking food. 10 weird facts that make you want to visit these colleges. penis pump claims becoming a stiff problem for federal government. seven fascinating lesser-known 20th century people. there’s an iphone game that lets you give barbie plastic surgery. the 24 nerdiest things that have ever happened. la conférence de françois hollande, en bref. the 7 stages of a netflix binge. 30 reasons greyhounds are gentle giants and you should adopt one. this guy is claiming to be conan o’brien’s secret son (updated). the gaying of southwest florida. amy poehler and paul rudd have teamed up again for a sweet on-screen romance. charting a new course. espn compiles the most powerful college football moments of the year. game of thrones season 4. a man has found the stranger who saved his life. the one biggest problem with this season of "the bachelor". 10 things you might need if leslie knope is your goddess. 20 things every modern office should have in 2014. the girl with a new face - documentary. 23 cosas que te o. there’s an ostrich on the run in tunbridge wells. elephant rolls car: elephant attack caught on camera. 12 new year’s resolutions to put on your big girl panties. justin bieber adds a couple more tattoos to his collection. what cancelled tv show should be brought back?. 21 questions russian people are sick of answering. dc mean tweets: "paul ryan is satan incarnate". how michael b. jordan became hollywood’s newest breakout star. can you tell which one is the real channel 5 documentary?. the definitive cycle of online dating. zoe saldana at the 71st annual golden globe awards in beverly hills. julia roberts at the 71st annual golden globe awards in beverly hills. amber heard at the 71st annual golden globe awards in beverly hills. amy adams at the 71st annual golden globe awards in beverly hills. jennifer lawrence at the 71st annual golden globe awards in beverly hills. cate blanchett at the 71st annual golden globe awards in beverly hills. emma watson at the 71st annual golden globe awards in beverly hills. larry david at a basketball game is so larry david part 2. olivia wilde at the 71st annual golden globe awards in beverly hills. sofia vergara at the 71st annual golden globe awards in beverly hills. mila kunis at the 71st annual golden globe awards in beverly hills. heidi klum at the 71st annual golden globe awards in beverly hills. sandra bullock at the 71st annual golden globe awards in beverly hills. stunning footage shows london in the ’20s versus london now. why emma watson’s golden globes outfit confused everyone. how london are you?. 14 coisas que acontecem em toda conference call. cornered muslim brotherhood rails against referendum in egypt. 20 señales que estás obsesionado con tu gato. pastor does a quick sermon. 14 cats that are way geekier than you. the 5 stages of submitting an assignment. 15 majestic pictures of peter capaldi owning his new “doctor who” role. 60 things that defined your childhood in india. 12 astonishing facts about your body. richard madden’s game of would you rather is almost as shocking as "game of thrones". the former editor of “the new york times” criticised a cancer patient for blogging about her illness. why outkast’s reunion can’t come too soon. this sherlock musical will help tide you over until the next season. is this what holden caulfield looks like?. the 19 types of old-school rave casualty. abercrombie’s cfo ascends to position of power behind the scenes. 10 routines from dance moms with powerful themes. a mountain biker had a seven-week-long erection after injuring his penis. jpmorgan’s profit falls over 7% thanks to madoff settlement. the couple who asked the internet to name their daughter may be regretting it about now. the real etiquette of the london underground. “the bachelor” gif recap week 2: too much to drink. there is an app which will quit your job for you. la télé en 2004 vs. la télé aujourd’hui. 34 nostalgic pictures of hmv oxford street spanning 70 years. the "sherlock" finale as an 8-bit video game. 20 things you didn’t know about "pulp fiction". children of glass - documentary. can you tell the difference between real vice headlines and fake ones?. "what if google was a guy" is a hilarious sketch that skewers our internet habits. 28 songs that will make you miss the 1990s. passion + right tools = productivity & happiness. the 6 books that reveal the new “secret of success”. a summation of springtime in europe. jon stewart explains why the west virginia chemical spill is so messed up. what it’s like to fly international in coach. 42 truly haunting pieces of art. pr firm disputes claims it proposed featuring chris christie in sandy ads. this is what your life is like if you don’t eat chocolate. mr. meyer in a nutshell. this is what you get when you combine the male leads from every nicholas sparks’ movie. 5 times barack obama forgot how to president. husky puppy vs frozen apple!. peter pan proposes to wendy in the cutest marriage proposal ever!. surprising statistics that show what utahns really think about marriage equality. 37 people trying not to melt in the hottest place on earth. 12 signs that you are probably a muslim living in america #muslimproblems. federal government charges wal-mart with labor violations. the 14 types of girls you’ve partied with. 20 annonces du bon coin qui vous feront perdre foi en l’humanité. the ghost of v.c. andrews: the life, death, and afterlife of the mysterious “flowers in the attic” author. 15 reasons to love brandi from “the real housewives of beverly hills”. drones monitor students during exams. elephant flips car. 8 terrifying true facts about dentists. this irish trio’s cover of the “friends” theme song will give you the chills. on his first day using snapchat, rand paul sent a butt joke about the nsa. 29 things that can easily ruin a woman’s day. fancy words for sexy times. 12 stages of the exam period explained by "peep show". brazil’s “rolezinhos” may be the latest threat to world cup security. 30 reasons "now and then" was a defining childhood movie for girls. 15 wonderful ways to improve your closet. 10 tips to live longer. a definitive ranking of all 50 original jelly belly flavours. 25 foods you probably haven’t eaten since you were a kid. why weren’t there any black musicians at the top of the singles chart last year?. everything you ever needed to know about “the selfie,” history included. fat chick relaxes on cat!. 9 celebrity tweets you missed today. vanessa hudgens at the ‘gimme shelter’ premiere in hollywood. tea leoni at the 2014 unicef ball held in beverly hills. alyssa milano at the 2014 unicef ball held in beverly hills. anna kendrick at the 2014 unicef ball held in beverly hills. cheryl burke at the 2014 unicef ball held in beverly hills. the bicycle commuter’s guide to biking los angeles. chrissy teigen at the 50th anniversary of the sports illustrated swimsuit issue in hollywood. heidi klum at the 50th anniversary of the sports illustrated swimsuit issue in hollywood. rebecca romijn at the 50th anniversary of the sports illustrated swimsuit issue in hollywood. kate upton at the 50th anniversary of the sports illustrated swimsuit issue in hollywood. ireland baldwin at the 50th anniversary of the sports illustrated swimsuit issue in hollywood. 12 fundamentals of writing "the other" (and the self). congressman bought other congressman a lego "star wars" x-wing for his birthday. the evolution of warcraft - (1994 - present). 21 signs working out just isn’t for you. yahoo’s chief operating officer is out. "goose mcs" is the only miracle on the hudson tribute you need to see. this 200-year-old book is also an animated painting. if your favorite literary icons had dating profiles. how ford’s new f-150 could change the pickup truck game. what is your preferred dipping sauce?. u.s. olympics head draws criticism for warning athletes against protests at sochi. democratic congressman confronts white house chief of staff over obamacare messaging. 16 british chocolates that will make you want to move to the u.k. immediately. “veronica mars” gets online spin-off series. 10 awkward moments when you’re unemployed. 27 novos produtos geniais que você não tinha ideia que existiam. state department official: u.s. sanctions against ukraine “on the table”. hazlo tú mismo: 39 formas de crear arte para tus paredes. 39 dogs who will make you question evolution. j.c. penney shutting 33 stores by may, cutting 2,000 jobs. hilariously strange kid versions of celebrities at the golden globes. what it’s like to live in justin bieber’s twitter account. republican senator worries about private drones being used in divorce cases. 8 awesome valentines you wish you had gotten as a kid. the oxford comma is extremely important and everyone should be using it. 10 things you didn’t know about girl scout cookies lead the daily links. 19 things only geminis understand. 19 things you don’t miss after graduating college. aol is wiping patch off its books. 5 dangerous words for a brit in the usa. store cameras can tell if shoppers are pissed off or happy. is leonardo dicaprio god walking among us?. this man has taken over 2,000 striking polaroid pictures of celebrities. russia accuses eu of "aggressive propaganda of homosexual love". colorado’s media shield law could become stronger after the jana winter ruling. 46 fotos provando que, onde quer que estejam no mundo, crianças são sempre crianças. mira a 15 famosos hablando en otros idiomas. billie jean king tells colbert she’s not afraid to keep it real at sochi. you won’t be able to stop watching this best of 2014 vine compilation. the deleted “spectacular now” scene that was too extreme to put on screen. the definitive ranking of chips. 12 signs you’re deadpool. pyruvate dehydrogenase complex deficiency (pdcd) - mystery diagnosis. the 10 best beyoncé & jay z pictures. do you know what fans of these celebrities call themselves?. 21 signs you were raised by a television. 36 white people who need to be stopped. the 11 different types of capitol hill staffers. captain planet trailer. cuddle club (fight club parody). republican congressman: judges who support same-sex marriage need "basic plumbing lessons". "veronica mars" star jason dohring takes a return trip to neptune. there is a store in la for time travelers. this great great grandma hired a stripper to help celebrate her 100th birthday. what does susan boyle look like playing bag-pipes?. 37 adoráveis itens com preguiças que você pode comprar no etsy. 8 things you learn to appreciate after moving back home. los 35 hechos más tiernos de todos los tiempos. donor to jeff denham’s congressional campaigns on trial for child molestation charge. the 11 worst things tech interns have messed up. that time "cocteau twins fever" hit ohio in 1985. danish tourist allegedly gang raped in one of india’s most popular tourist spots. 9 ways to tell someone is keeping a secret (and lying about it). this vine of beyoncé throwing side-eye is amazing. 21 reasons target is a midwestern utopia. new england heroin epidemic sees dramatic increase in addiction and death. 12 times nintendo games were the worst. today’s fog turned nyc into a city in the clouds. you must watch “the daily show’s” beautiful tribute to fox news’ “the five”. 29 confessions from the gaming widows of whisper. 5 reasons a trip to mars is out of this world. boom - it’s an awesome kitten gif. 21 habilidades culinárias básicas que você ainda não tem. 18 fotos que te confundirán. this short film about "batkid" is absolutely heartwarming. steve carell and stephen colbert’s tribute to captain sully. 13 times we knew bennifer couldn’t last. company responsible for west virginia spill has horribly ironic blog post about clean water. a first look at what may be the surprise hit of this year’s sundance film festival. 10 revealing facts about your behavior. this is what the tigers of thailand are actually thinking. exclusive: egypt observers report ballot stuffing, bribes in constitution vote. 16 random jelly belly combinations that totally work. christie joins long list of past american figures to use most famous non-apology apology. abraham lincoln: saint or sinner?. this beautiful note was left by a grieving widower hoping to pay for a young couple’s meal. meet olivier giroud, the really, really ridiculously good-looking soccer player. 52 dicas de organização meticulosas para pessoas com toc. 27 formas nuevas e inteligentes de utilizar los utensilios de cocina. fogpocalypse in new york city. moving images of the baby miraculously pulled from the rubble of a bombing, now safe at home. 10 factual reasons why cats rule. how hull are you?. 28 things that people with big boobs can simply never do. dieudonné de 1995 à aujourd’hui. an acclaimed cartoonist, on why she needed to quit comics and comedy. gleeks around the world, stop. time to ‘love’ the season 3 graduates even more.. 26 reasons "peep show" is pretty much your life. boris johnson says south bank skatepark should be preserved. these awesome posters show a darker ending to harry potter. 16 reasons being petite is the cutest thing ever. 6 diy projects to make your outdoor areas more inhabitable. 13 times dogs joined the goof crew. 25 problemas que só as pessoas com tdah entendem. los mejores “memes” de famosos que jamas podremos olvidar. where in the world you can find the best schools — and the happiest kids. cnn reporter gets stoned on a “rocky mountain high” tour in colorado. 18 incredibly simple things any man can do to look better. my supersized breasts could kill me. i did it! i paid for my bfa in creative writing by dumpster diving!. 21 things that happen when you don’t eat meat. 20 reasons why leonardo dicaprio deserves every award ever. bubble football has arrived in britain and it looks incredible. the 8 most shocking revelations from the senate’s declassified report on benghazi terrorist attacks. jessica chastain and cate blanchett shared a secret at the golden globes and it’s the biggest mystery of the day. the incredible story of a woman’s final months fighting brain cancer as told through her tweets. it’s all about new york for the new season of glee. two fans quest to find every location from every fandom. 9 stunning before & after images from around the world. dystopic reads for 2014. jack dorsey says the receipt is untapped “canvas” and “publishing medium”. lena dunham is on the cover of vogue. this is the only jennifer lawrence impression you need to see. 19 produtos absolutamente necessários para pessoas preguiçosas. 36 formas geniales de esconder las monstruosidades en tu casa. 26 food swaps to make you healthier. who is the most underrated actor in hollywood?. 30 awful things about riding public transportation every day. senate intelligence committee: benghazi attack was preventable. the woman who couldn’t stop burping - mystery diagnosis. the 14 most awkward social situations on trains & what to do. 22 things you’ll understand if you were raised by two moms. how to get out of the friend zone. 11 reasons you should love clowns. 10 quotes that prove myrtle snow from "american horror story: coven" is totally badass. 15 surprising facts about birth control. watch drake’s "snl" promos. this man hasn’t washed for 60 years. 27 situaciones cotidianas que son terriblemente difíciles para la gente tímida. joel mchale perfectly sums up justin bieber in one sentence. 12 truques usados pelas empresas de fast food para induzir as pessoas a comerem mais porcaria. 17 reasons the denver broncos are the least hateable team in the nfl playoffs. 25 struggles only the perpetually weepy will understand. 20 truly bizarre gifts received by the royal family. 25 choses que vous ignorez peut-être au sujet de « titanic ». 20 songs you hear at every rock club. there’s a hilarious new trend for re-enacting viral gifs. mayor of sochi’s olympic village defends russia’s anti-lgbt law. every kelly clarkson song, ranked from worst to best. the 10 stupidest things you should never say to a wheelchair user. in objection of the hipster beard trend. why hbo’s "looking" is the honest gay series we’ve been waiting for. 13 of the weirdest rush hour crushes from metro. could this be the greatest celebrity fitness video ever?. if one direction were bald. 17 horrifying middle class injuries. whoa, robert downey jr. can sing. iranian leader’s twitter account deletes controversial statement boasting about nuclear deal. 20 reasons to be legitimately terrified of space. macklemore performs "can’t hold us" on new york city bus. the football team with one of the longest losing streaks in sport just won a game. 11 reasons why migraines aren’t regular headaches. bank of america’s profit jumps to $3.44 billion despite mortgage loss and legal troubles. scientists show there’s no such thing as a sixth sense. beyoncé wants everyone to stop buying in to the myth of gender equality. this video of a baby giving an ipad tutorial is the only thing you need to watch today. benjamin the bunny dresses up as your favourite movie characters. former mozambique president calls for lgbt equality in africa. these underwater sculptures will take your breath away. a "friends" super-fan made a tiny and intricate shrine to the show. 28 reasons to worship louise brealey, aka molly from “sherlock”. the 14 stages of a “quiet” night out.. 6 ways the internet and horror go together perfectly. there’s a great twitter that collects the weirdest fan fiction on the internet. 10 breathtaking photos of the northern lights, taken on a scottish island. this walking cat video will make your day. husky dog just does not want to go. the toddler who stopped walking - mystery diagnosis. new video of asiana airlines crash victim casts doubt on officials’ claims. thailand’s prime minister says the february election will go ahead as planned. as landscape shifts, new jersey lgbt leader heading home to run oklahoma group. unpublished challenger disaster photos surface on reddit. if jordan belfort from "wolf of wall street" had an instagram. bruce springsteen and jimmy fallon take on chris christie’s bridgegate with "born to run" spoof. jojo is officially free from her former label after a 7-year battle. 16 reasons to be excited for coachella 2014. “how i met your mother” puts a character in yellowface. 50 amazing piece of robot artwork (part ii). 14 best dishes in new york city. the 9 best kids tv shows from the 90’s. 60 words and a war without end: the untold story of the most dangerous sentence in u.s. history. 18 choses que vous ignorez peut-être sur « pretty woman ». america’s spies want edward snowden dead. lgbt people in u.s. spend an estimated $7.9 billion per year on cigarettes. what its like when you don’t drink coffee or tea. why your best friend should always be your mom. jennifer lawrence photobombing things is your new favourite meme. republican sen. tom coburn to retire at end of 2014. report: uganda president rejects “anti-homosexuality bill”. 12 reasons why looking at cats online is better than owning one. missing wall street journal reporter’s credit card reportedly used in mexico. activist gives speech inside mitch mcconnell’s office about unemployment benefits. the best and worst countries in the world for eating. 15 iconic people you had no idea were the same age. change the way you look at introverts. ahead of olympics, head of chechnya says main terror leader is dead, again. siberian husky throws a fit. oreo cookie cows really do exist. this video of a little boy stuck in a bucket will break your heart. stunning short film breathes new life into classical works of art. 10 actors jonah hill has more oscar nominations than. the oscars love to nominate actors who play real people. sochi trip secured, u.s. figure skating champion sounds off on russia’s anti-lgbt laws. why toejam and earl are the most underrated video game duo of all time. keira knightley at “the jack ryan: shadow recruit” premiere in hollywood. senator corker proposes putting off iran sanctions vote until summer. 8 signs you’re too old to be watching "teen wolf". robert redford is not “disturbed” about being snubbed by the oscars. hbo’s ceo doesn’t care that you are sharing your hbo go password. the most adorable mugshot ever is also fake. rape victim gets $150,000 after police accuse her of lying. what it’s like to  be in an interracial couple. 10 reasons why big ang is awesome. 27 moments to remember from the season finale of “the following”. movie quotes as equations are insanely hilarious. meet john newman, the dude version of amy winehouse. 13 celebrity #tbt photos you may have missed this week. what does neal brennan think white people need to know about black people?. things cops don’t want you to know. bipartisan voting rights reforms could see quick action in congress. 8 celebrity tweets you missed today. cops seize justin bieber’s phone (which may have naked pictures on it). 14 reasons peyton manning and tom brady are exactly the same person. 24 reasons you were obsessed with women’s figure skating in the ’90s. d.c. attorney to leave high-powered law firm to defend utah’s marriage ban, state attorney general says. rand paul’s college newspaper writings reveal he hasn’t changed at all. 13 of the funniest things kids have said to their teachers. all the times i thought i’d die, but didn’t. j.c. penney will start sharing some corporate news exclusively on twitter, and some analysts don’t like it. the doctor’s office on the inside. 16 old-fashioned things ’80s and ’90s girls loved. 14 reasons sara bareilles deserves to win "album of the year". you’ve got to see nir arieli’s infrared photographs of male dancers. ranking of 55 hilary duff songs from best to best. 19 signs you’re the next supreme. 21 hilarious and important things zooey deschanel has tweeted. 21 animals preparing for the winter olympics. which of jon hamm’s massive bulges are you?. hedge fund manager dan loeb’s attack on sony entertainment looks pretty silly right now. 12 recipes everyone needs for romance. 15 fatos surpreendentes sobre a pílula anticoncepcional. 25 monstrously huge novels that are totally worth your time lead the daily links. 19 cosas que pasan cuando no usas maquillaje. 11 times you are exactly like james bond. this couple video-chatted their future selves at their wedding reception. 19 reasons lisa rinna is gravely underrated on twitter. 15 things flat-chested girls will understand. the man who tripled in size. tell us about yourselfi(ie): letoya luckett. 9 reasons 20-somethings love “20-something” lists. 12 reasons cersei lannister is not a badass. 16 reasons why the san francisco 49ers are the most fearsome team in the playoffs. 22 reasons why commas are the most important things in the world. buzzfeed brews live interview with hbo ceo richard plepler. prank video dance party!. unicycling darth vader performs on “jimmy kimmel live” with flaming bagpipes. the "goldfinch" fandom is packing a tiny manhattan museum. os 25 melhores perfis do pinterest para seguir quando estiver planejando o seu casamento. 10 weird superstitions about death. why i should be buzzfeed’s new design intern. 14 signs you’re addicted to sweets. the internet really wants leonardo dicaprio to win an oscar. which fitness class should you be taking?. why i want to work at buzzfeed. 19 momentos inexplicáveis de game shows japoneses. las 24 cosas más “nerds” que hayan sucedido. new footage of baby lil bub is just as magical as you’d expect. 25 people who prove the thirst is truly real. meryl streep and harvey weinstein to target nra in upcoming movie. dangerous “airpocalypse” descends on beijing. 9 forgotten pharrell pop gems you must hear. massive uproar after two police officers found not guilty in beating death of schizophrenic man. reminder: chiwetel ejiofor was in "love actually". it’s dreamers vs. longtime activists on citizenship as a deal breaker for new immigration laws. three arrested as wildfire burns more than 1,700 acres near los angeles. who said it: schmidt, winston, or nick?. barkwatch - it’s baywatch with dogs. the 10 funniest exercises from marvel comics’ weird fitness book. 31 things that people with big boobs can simply never do. 14 insanely cute animal nail art. pudge the cat has a new diy series on youtube. 18 teachers who are real life heroes. 15 students and alumni to watch at sochi. text of iran implementation agreement sent to congress. 12 reasons why "parenthood" is the realest show on tv. ohio attorney general appeals same-sex marriage recognition ruling. the 16 most surprising things about this year’s oscar nominations. here’s an insane picture of spock hanging out with jimi hendrix. 10 signs your parents are overinvolved in your life. roger lloyd-pack has died aged 69. 19 things you didn’t know about the movie “blue is the warmest color”. cameron diaz talks about her poop on dr. oz. 19 momentos inexplicables de los concursos de juegos japoneses de tv. josh jackson is coming back to television. você deveria saber que as bailarinas são mais radicais do que você. the top 10 babies in my baby fight club. beautiful paintings of history, animated. this guy is the van gogh of snapchat. regency style. myleene klass complains about being chatted up by a member of parliament. the cutest, most important vine video of a kid singing beyoncé that you will ever see in your life. when biscuits met gravy, a perfect dish was born. egypt’s gun boom. what city should you actually live in?. john mccain: new york times is an "ever reliable surrogate of the obama administration". a student rick-rolled his physics teacher in spectacular fashion. if miley cyrus was a "sailor moon" character. 14 animals that are so over office life. 12 colleges with weird but potentially useful majors. 15 inspiring pieces of life advice from amy poehler. the internet is loving the fact that “jackass presents: bad grandpa” got an oscar nomination. 17 book-inspired accessories you’ll want immediately. sochi is cashing in on captured orca whales and it’s made a lot of people angry. beyoncé threw a masquerade-themed birthday party for her mother. what do you mean you haven’t seen brooklyn nine-nine?. 20 times hollywood make pretty celebrities look ugly. watch prince joffrey from “game of thrones” give a charming, smart speech about celebrity culture. there’s a pregnant woman on "my strange addiction" who can’t stop smelling and chewing dirty diapers. 10 profoundly philosophical tweets from lee ryan. kris jenner and nicole richie did a cover of salt-n-pepa’s “shoop”. kate gosselin and her teenage twins had the most cringeworthy interview on the "today" show this morning. which "new girl" character are you?. 25 coisas que você não sabia sobre o filme “titanic”. 25 cosas que no sabías acerca de la película “titanic”. this powerful video is required viewing for anyone who lives in a democracy. python caught on camera devouring impala. 28 signs you were a high school choir geek. 13 rad ideas for a tattoo-inspired wedding. an important and definitive ranking of celebrity man buns. here’s the brand new music video for dale earnhardt jr. jr.’s "run". the action movie guide to life. the 17 most popular lesbian bars in the u.s. (yes, they exist). these overly voluptuous venezuelan mannequins are kind of ridiculous. stop everything you are doing and watch this dog dance. once a year the residents of florence play the most violent sport on earth. man dumps tonnes of manure outside french parliament in protest at president hollande. handsome asian male model or maybe not. todo explicado con fútbol es mejor. the grand, obscure and strange items that authors collect. 21 deliciosas razões para ter mais sexo. 19 productos absolutamente necesarios para gente perezosa. 14 expectations you had about your twenties when you were 9. 10 embarrassing early roles of oscar nominees. 10 questions you should never ask a local in any country. london is now the most popular tourist destination in the world. 26 oscar nominees you can watch online now. entregue-se para esses 15 gifs loucamente surreais. 21 razones placenteras para tener más sexo. “the independent” is up for sale again, but who’s buying?. beyoncé blessed some zoo animals with her presence. scientists have discovered why humans don’t walk sideways like crabs. “american hustle” and “gravity” top the 2014 oscar nominations. goldman sachs profits drop 19% to $2.33 billion. here’s some symbolism in "jurassic park" that you almost certainly hadn’t spotted. vida antes do casamento vs vida após o casamento. 12 maneras en las que las empresas de comida rápida te engañan para que comas más basura. look at these incredible original manuscripts by da vinci, mozart, jane austen and more. 19 coisas que acontecem quando você não está usando maquiagem. 96 segundos de vines relajantes para ayudarte a sobrevivir un día difícil. in chile, a lightning storm breaks out above an erupting volcano. everything you need to know about marijuana and your dog. 36 things you only find in hackney. you can attend a cuddle workshop in london, and it looks pretty cosy. there is an upside-down house in russia. this man’s face after winning a scotch pie competition wins today. the 22 most ’90s pictures of kate moss ever taken. london’s cuddle workshop. how “benefits street” became the most-talked about show on tv. congrats! you made it to the last!. tv confidential archives: show no. 216 with guests michael gleason and stephanie zimbalist. sugarless haribo gummy bear reviews on amazon are the most insane thing you’ll read today. 5 other times “wholesome” shows like downton abbey depicted storylines involving sexual assault. things to do in brazil other than the world cup. 14 traduções bizarras de seriados que poderiam ter sido feitas pela tv aberta brasileira. 14 everyday items that just can’t take it anymore. 10 photos d’aurores boréales à couper le souffle. 16 things only girls with average boobs understand. 13 reasons why digimon is awesome. the governors of california and washington are betting cases of wine on the 49ers-seahawks game. two americans among 21 killed in kabul restaurant attack. madonna calls her son the n-word on instagram, deletes comment. the unwritten rules of the gym. there’s a homer simpson version of mr. potato head. lightning strikes christ the redeemer statue and breaks off its finger. which kind of engagement ring is perfect for you?. democrats and longtime immigration advocates to dreamers: not so fast on dropping citizenship. jeb bush on politics in 1980: “it’s not something i’d like to do the rest of my life”. this teenager with one arm and no legs teamed up with andrew lincoln of “the walking dead” to prank norman reedus. 15 pictures of grilled cheeses that will bring out the closet foodie in you. how google leapfrogged the creepy line. the most gif-able music video in a while. kristen stewart says good-bye to twilight with sundance’s "camp x-ray". this teenage artist was bullied off of tumblr after making a webcomic about white privilege. 18 cartoons from the ‘90s you probably forgot existed. 20 reasons you should be crushing on evan peters from american horror story. meet xander, the impossibly cute blind service pug that helps victims of child abuse. so i have a thigh gap… what’s your point?. 18 celebrity instagrams you need to see this week. 21 snapchats con subtítulos perfectos. 18 ways you know cleaning just isn’t for you. two little boys with type-1 diabetes started an adorable long-distance friendship on instagram. a timeline of the ugly twitter scandal that ended with the death of an indian minister’s wife. what your sleeping position says about you. 14 reasons why jim harbaugh is america’s slightly out of control uncle. 23 mind-blowing assembly line gifs lead the daily links. kitten horror movie trailer: under the sheets. russia’s invisible children, adults. 33 flawless texts from the whedonverse. johnny depp and amber heard are engaged. ellen’s interview with elias, the child prodigy, is the cutest thing you’ll see today. 12 completely unsubstantiated rumors about coachella 2014 that i definitely made up just now. why investors are so happy about morgan stanley’s fourth quarter (despite profits going down 70%). federal appeals court orders state to provide inmate with sex reassignment surgery. how big is your penis?. 9 reasons why everyone in washington should miss tom coburn. mississippi karate instructor pleads guilty to sending ricin-laced letters. obamacare “enrollee” who didn’t enroll is really going to the state of the union with steve stockman. “12 years a slave” star’s sister’s reaction to his oscar nomination will make you happy cry. ode to the greatest product ever invented: the head massager. 28 famous people who are good at something besides being famous. 14 reasons school is basically torture for left-handed people. the new axe ad about making love, not war is surprisingly amazing. being an adrenaline junkie is insanely terrifying. 15 examples of top dutch design. 20 reasons you don’t need no man. you’ve never been drunker than this russian guy sleeping on the toilet. 28 cosas que las que tienen pechos grandes simplemente no pueden hacer. 15 maneiras maravilhosas de melhorar seu guarda-roupa. which pixar movie are you?. new ad invokes mlk jr. to rally against immigration reform. 10 formative books every young gay man should read.. the 15 financial and emotional stages of payday. “on shaky ground”: living through the 1994 northridge earthquake. 2014 marks the 50th anniversary of martin luther king jr.’s visit to berlin. 29 cosas que pueden arruinar fácilmente el día de una mujer. you can now get a 3d printed replica of your fetus. utah attorney general’s office seeks 10-day delay in marriage appeal. adorable dad turns his daughters’ lunches into works of art. 7 reasons women should not give a flying f*** about queefing. pope benedict defrocked 384 priests in two years for molesting children. adam lanza’s father to help sandy hook investigators find a motive. meryl streep proves she can make anything sound good. 11 lessons you learn studying abroad. 9 feature stories we’re reading this week: the aumf, the cannibal cop and artisan toast. top ten doctor who characters we need to see again. the duracell commercial that will make you cry. south sudanese in israel “choose between prison and death”. 19 things people swear they’ll never do until they have kids. all the news one man saw from his porch. the internet is throwing a dream wedding for a couple who survived the boston marathon bombing. 21 señales de que hacer ejercicio simplemente no es para ti. 21 sinais de que você não nasceu para malhar. creepy things everyone does in video games. 21 chickens just doin’ chicken stuff. rest in pierce. the abc’s of growing up with a food allergy. 15 sports fans you will meet in college. osteopathic medicine does exist!. president obama announces changes to domestic phone surveillance program. 17 new year’s resolutions every lesbian makes. seeking rob ford: five french canadians’ quest to meet the infamous mayor of toronto. 7 most exciting moments from “the walking dead” season 4 trailer. 10 things that happen to millennials who do a phd. 18 problems only men with large members will understand. chris pine has a surprisingly wonderful singing voice. 21 struggles of having an annoying dog. amazingly surreal celebrity portraits by david lachapelle. evan rachel wood admits she had a huge crush on her "thirteen" co-star. how to make friends in middle school. goalie comes out of nowhere to make a spectacular save. how to achieve inner peace through burlesque. before they were writers: a quiz on authors’ odd jobs. your mental sorbet: bruce springsteen & jimmy fallon: “gov. christie traffic jam” (“born to run” parody). ugandan president denounces anti-homosexuality bill — but stops short of blocking it — in letter to parliament. 25 things only shetlanders know. 7 books that teach kids about diversity. 39 cães que farão você questionar a evolução. 25 reasons hunter s. thompson was a literary rock star. marine corps tweets “lone shooter” joke — for mlk day. the 15 emotional stages of a job interview. 21 adorable love noms by animals. how the workflow changed for the average nsa analyst friday. these black gay dads and their three kids have the cutest instagram ever. definitive proof that app store copying is out of control. the post every dystopian novel lover needs to read. the kellan lutz bulge picture is fake, but don’t you worry! the real version is still pretty great. there is a puppet with a penis on its head on a japanese children’s show. judge strikes down voter id law in pennsylvania. unique wedding traditions from around the world. this little pig will restore your faith in bathtime. beyonce accused of stealing kelly rowland’s #tbt photo (and then cropping her out). gates: i was more loyal to obama than some in the white house. watch this vine of sandra bullock cursing on live tv. 18 cosas increíblemente simples que cualquier hombre puede hacer para lucir mejor. "appropriate behavior": the sundance film for the persian bisexual in all of us. 20 raisons d’aimer (encore plus) le sexe. 23 reasons winston is actually the best character on “new girl”. 11 reasons you’re not ready to say ‘i do’. bones found in new york may be the remains of avonté oquendo. 29 coisas que podem facilmente estragar o dia de uma mulher. 15 classical paintings as beautiful gifs. 22 brilliantly british board games. 40 songs that prove carrie underwood is the queen of country music and someday the world. fashion at the critics’ choice awards. 22 side effects of working a boring job. putin says lgbt people should feel "calm" in sochi but "please leave children in peace". hertfordshire police left this lovely note after giving a drunk man a ride home. 28 coisas que pessoas com peitos grandes simplesmente não podem fazer. 21 desserts that are really excited to see you. the viral image of the syrian boy sleeping between the graves of his parents is fake. what’s the last book you read?. kim kardashian went on “ellen” to share new photos of north west. 13 things you can get for free right now. watch shia labeouf yell in some guy’s face and head butt him. deberías saber que las bailarinas de ballet son más fuertes que tú. 6 weird uk laws that may or may not exist. 21 absolutely bonkers soccer gifs. chris christie’s crisis plunges gop deeper into wilderness. instagram’s most famous butt: meet jen selter. as 24 coisas mais nerds que já aconteceram. la vida antes y después del matrimonio. 9 portraits of mps drawn by children. 22 things that can easily ruin any man’s day. how dennis rodman got to north korea. the life of an intern as told by "downton abbey". morgan stanley’s fourth quarter profit hammered by legal expenses. ranking the 31 best fantasy/sci-fi shows on tv right now. 18 coisas incrivelmente simples que qualquer homem pode fazer para parecer melhor. 15 gifs caprichosamente surrealistas como para perderse en ellos. davos 2014: four ways the world economic forum fails to represent the world. the queen’s granddaughter has given birth to a royal baby girl. why "poorly drawn lines" is your new favourite web comic. 15 celebrity instagrams you need to see this week. american apparel now have mannequins with quite a lot of pubic hair. human emojis are quietly horrifying. where the hell has moriarty been hiding?. this trainee sheep dog learning the ropes will brighten your day. jeremy clarkson tweeted, then deleted, a homophobic insult. vine star facing trial for alleged rape of fellow vine star. this is what would happen if paddington bear tried to immigrate to the uk today. 13 disney quotes that sound dirty out of context. introducing the wrong chicago cubs mascot. beer frisbee 1986. what football would sound like with a british announcer. baby loving dad’s guitar. fennec fox and its toy. the characters from “party down” react to the hot messes of “party down south”. this one photo shows just how severe the drought is in california. an explosion in bangkok has injured at least 22 thai protestors. this one music video combines the best dancing scenes from all your favorite movies. 15 signs you’re ready to go back to college after winter break. all of the requisite "i’m an actor" introductions from tonight’s sag awards. cate blanchett disses matthew mcconaughey in wonderful acceptance speech. this genius couple had a "twin peaks"-themed wedding. 9 crazy ways people have shown love for cheese. jennifer lawrence and cuba gooding jr. pose perfectly together on the red carpet. overeager fans push over barricade trying to greet julia roberts. natalie dormer shaved off half of her hair. sofia vergara thanks her boobs in sag awards acceptance speech. emma thompson ditches heels at the sag awards to be a flats advocate. jennifer lawrence talks about armpit vaginas on the sag awards red carpet. 19 coisas que você provavelmente não sabia sobre “uma linda mulher”. 23 señales de que eres hermione granger. fashion at the 2014 sag awards red carpet. 10 times alex turner was a song-writing god. which jennifer lawrence are you?. 30 of the most outrageous bedazzled items. 9 videos you can’t miss this week. 39 signs you might be a crazy cat lady. is half-ass gay acceptance the hot new trend?. one direction’s liam payne tweets support for duck dynasty’s “family values”. jamaica’s two-man bobsled team qualifies for sochi olympics. #sochihaiku hashtag shows anger at olympics and russia. putin children first, super gay mario, rhino hunt or man hunt?. 15 itens essenciais que você precisa no dia do seu casamento, de acordo com o pinterest. just chill - free music. "slightly haunted" house for sale in pennsylvania. the 18 types of people you’ve dated. 16 cosas que nadie te dice acerca de vacacionar en “disney world”. 30 songs you’d probably hear in eric forman’s basement. "doctor who" carved crayon sculptures. crazy things that happen when you take a step forward on google maps. the 20 stages of going on a brewery tour. 17 revealing facts about shaun white. 17 things celebrities did this week. aaron paul lets go of jesse pinkman by finding his own protégé. everything you know about penises is wrong. life stories: an interview with gary shteyngart, author of "little failure". you need to hear the story of drake’s audition for "degrassi". fab or drab of the week. crossfit athlete paralyzed after suffering severed spine in fitness competition. 23 random juxtapositions that probably shouldn’t exist. what it’s like being a vegetarian in a cheeseburger world. 18 awesome benefits of having a jewish best friend. 24 outrageous, hideous, and just plain weird awards season dresses. the most wtf, nsfw movie at this year’s sundance film festival. former nfl star darren sharper arrested on rape charges. 18 penguins falling over. 12 fatos surpreendentes sobre o seu corpo. 35 lecciones de la vida que podemos aprender de los animales. 100 famous movie quotes as charts. current "bachelor" juan pablo galavis says gay men should not be allowed on the show. 14 damn fine exsamples of twin peaks fan art you might need to own. the problems with working from home. 14 beautiful winnie-the-pooh quotes. 50 gorgeous wedding dress details that are utterly to die for. 21 amazing parenting apps that will make your life easier. these pictures of frozen trees in lapland will blow your mind. russian lgbt activist detained after unfurling pride flag near olympic torch. ukip councillor blames gay marriage for stormy weather. 25 vegan recipes for super bowl sunday. citi investors think either the broncos or forty-niners will win the super bowl. ride the world’s tallest waterslide in gifs. 9 classy ways to eat a whole cheese. notorious russian anti-lgbt activist reportedly arrested in cuba. nosferatu: a symphony of horror (1922). 19 razones por las que las relaciones a larga distancia son mejores de lo que piensas. 11 stages of being the worst kind of student ever. 5 foodie reasons being a kid in the 80s was totally awesome. storm photography by mike hollingshead. just some plastic bags doing some ballet. a very cautious pedestrian stopped at a red light in coventry. 21 coisas que acontecem quando você não come carne. daytime fireworks are so much cooler than night time fireworks. the woman with half of a body. the 46 year pregnancy - documentary. 7 new faces in 7 days - documentary. half ton killer. the girl who stopped growing - mystery diagnosis. 16 things you will come across in melbourne. how kris and bruce jenner’s separation was televised. insane post-game interview overshadows remarkable game-winning play. fun fact: kanye west photoshops himself into his floor plans. 21 animals celebrating national hug day. super bowl matchup set: seattle seahawks vs. denver broncos. these movies are not for kids. wendy davis gave a different story about her divorce under oath in 2012. bird steals a camera, becomes astounding cinematographer. 10 things you do when you like someone. will smith and u2 will be jimmy fallon’s first “tonight show” guests. 17 coisas que te assustam sobre bebês antes de você ter um. hiv-positive student allegedly filmed secret sex tapes with more than 30 unknowing partners. 31 chiens vraiment cons. les pires moments de la télévision japonaise. 18 cures for the obesity epidemic, as told by disney’s “heavyweights”. 30 surefire ways to spot a brit abroad. tyra banks confirms sequel to disney’s "life-size". 5 reasons why life is hard for beautiful women. my letter to my church. 5 foreign products that won’t be appearing in british supermarkets anytime soon. unbelievable things that you actually believed. officemax sent a letter addressed to a man and his “daughter killed in car crash”. cats and dogs have hilariously different parenting styles. espn responds to criticism of grantland’s "dr. v" story. a heartwarming dashcam video captures a police officer stopping to play catch with a kid. why don’t you… - free music. 15 truques de cuidados pessoais que vão facilitar a sua vida. 20 hermosas fotos a color de rusos zaristas. how about i blow your mind?. obama on nsa: "it’s going to take some time to win back trust". 23 signs you work in sales. russian suicide bombers threaten sochi attack in video. multicentric reticulohistiocytosis (mrh) - mystery diagnosis. “modern clueless” is the new twitter feed you need in your life. protest against "dictatorship" in ukraine turns violent. this vine pretty much sums up how you feel about winter. which hogwarts house do you belong in?. ecuadorian opposition journalist seeks help from u.s. rights groups. “paul flowers” twitter account is the work of a man on bail for alleged threats to escorts. why hoodie allen is your new favorite artist. (you just didn’t know it till now.). "parks and recreation" renewed for a seventh season!. the 20 worst parts about coming back from a semester abroad. stoner kid makes local news. putin says he has gay friends but equates gay people to pedophiles. 16 things teen girls wore in the winter of 1996. can video games make you smarter?. live “peter pan” musical to fly this december on nbc. monday as told by infomercials. how to leave your lover according to paul simon and told by cats. benedict cumberbatch performing a love song will melt your fangirl heart. 21 pequeñas victorias de ser una persona soltera. os 23 estágios de cortar o cabelo. 24 ways to get siri to bring out her true sassiness. “cool runnings” in real life: jamaican bobsleigh team can’t afford to go to the winter olympics. bizarre visions - mystery diagnosis. transgender people are paying the price for the media’s willful ignorance. 23 ways your wedding could be ruined. 33 insanely clever things your small apartment needs. 25 easy party dips you can make in 20 minutes. ugandan president tells u.s. activists he will reject anti-lgbt law, seek to ‘protect children’ instead. 27 gatos que se arrepintieron de sus decisiones inmediatamente. 21 things ’00s teen movies taught girls about love. 12 times david cameron tried to fool us into thinking he is a normal person. dozens hurt in thailand grenade attacks. neville longbottom the corgi. this spying cat thinks he’s so stealth. 17 reasons stuart in the big bang theory is the best character on tv. 50 objetos que você mesmo pode fazer para organizar toda a sua vida. here are the outtakes from conan’s lyft ride with ice cube and kevin hart. turkish police use water cannon and tear gas on internet control protesters. a weird rock just appeared out of nowhere on mars. malware companies are offering developers hundreds of thousands of dollars for chrome extensions. “teddy bear lost and found” is the sweetest public service on the internet. these daredevils hanging off tall buildings will make you feel a bit sick. the 19 best moments of drake’s “snl”. my one & only (hd). 50 amazing behind-the-scenes photos from “ghostbusters”. the internet has deemed this week’s “snl” the “blackest” episode ever. this hilarious spongebob parody will confuse and delight you. drake rocked his yarmulke and vest again for his re-re-bar mitzvah on “snl”. the vine about women’s periods to end all vines about women’s periods….period. meet the 17-year-old girl who stood up to death threats after her tweet went viral on new year’s eve. 10 very good reasons to date a bearded man. video game shotguns vs the real thing. the u.s. is the biggest threat to world peace, according to a poll. 19 things that happen when you get drunk for the first time. the 20 absolute worst parts about being a receptionist. everyday sucky things about being schizophrenic. 8 reasons to add color to your snow day. 26 secrets your netflix account knows about you. colorado’s marijuana shops made more than $1 million on first day of legalization. 18 reasons to love literary dublin. the 17 worst guests at every wedding. awkward dance moves every guy does. how a punk band fooled mi6, scared margaret thatcher and almost caused a diplomatic incident. 29 problems only procrastinators understand. 15 wonderful new netflix additions to watch when you’re stuck inside. 15 times french president francois hollande messed up a handshake. more congressmen say they’re open to clemency deal to bring edward snowden back to u.s.. cuba’s favorite tv show might surprise you. "the wolf of wall street" is a movie about an asshole, told by an asshole. les poignées de main ratées de françois hollande. 33 músicas que vão fazer 10 anos em 2014. 31 consejos para asegurarte que disfrutes el día de tu boda. 8 celebrity tweets you missed today. the story of 2013’s only female candidate for nyc mayor. everyday things that affect your mood. watch the greatest catch of all time. these "up" inspired photos for a couple’s 61st anniversary will probably make you misty-eyed. 8 incredible snowmen you wish were in your yard lead the daily links. the demolition of sandy hook school is complete. the unwritten rules of email. geek culture looks to 2014 for bigger and greater things. chinese consumers react to walmart donkey-fox meat scandal. minnesota vikings deny that chris kluwe’s lgbt advocacy ended his career. esta arte de maquiar o olho como princesa da disney é deslumbrante. mira este vine hecho de pesadillas. the good doctor’s voice. glenn greenwald tears into ruth marcus over edward snowden. 23 things children of the 80’s from atlanta will never forget. everything you need to know about the massive winter storm that hit the northeast and midwest. 5 reasons why you should hire lucky as science editor. ditch the boyfriend and get a dog! here’s why!. woman raised by monkeys - documentary. this is what a wind-up pug looks like. debbie harry performing at the new year’s eve 2014 celebration in times square. 28 pictures of your new favorite instagram duo. miley cyrus performing at the new year’s eve celebration in times square. two indian women gang raped twice almost exactly a year after brutal delhi rape. youtube’s 10 most viral videos of 2013. 31 dicas para ter certeza de que vai aproveitar o dia do seu casamento. este arte de maquillaje de ojos de princesas de disney es impresionante. how to write an extremely cynical love song. paris hilton at her new year’s eve bash at the bellagio in las vegas. president obama’s vacation is better than yours. all the months, ranked from worst to best. these people know exactly what’s important when it comes to riding out a blizzard. so moffat filmed a fake scene for the "sherlock" premiere. did you know celine dion has her own personal $72 million water park mansion?. those things miley cyrus said about beyoncé aren’t real. 10 things that need to retire in 2014. california supreme court rules undocumented immigrant can receive law license. proof that no photo op is safe. 24 signs dating isn’t for you. this could maybe, possibly be a breakout year for bank of america. an egyptian puppet has actually been accused of being a secret terrorist. 14 resoluções de beleza que realmente valem ser mantidas em 2014. 21 resoluciones de crianza para el año nuevo. the 7 stages of watching law & order svu. 12 rolling stone covers that immortalized 2004 in pop culture. chris christie sent a very christie christmas card to iowa republicans. is this the most attractive photo of matthew lewis ever taken?. jamaican dancehall star sizzla banned from music festival for anti-gay lyrics. four-year-old girl belts out adorable cover of "let it go" from disney’s "frozen". why i fell in love with harry styles. 6 terrifying statistics about internet security. “behind the gifs” is your new favorite subreddit. les 9 types de gueule de bois. anne hathaway deixou um saco de cocô de cachorro no carro de um fotógrafo. 14 propósitos de belleza que en realidad valen la pena conservar en el 2014. ps4 owners are watching three times as much porno as xbox one owners. monkey & thunder are the love cats!. chicago’s boystown tops list of world’s best gay neighborhoods. why i feel ok about falling off the wagon after years of sobriety. falling downton abbey. 7 original ways to have your eggs. these brilliant snapchat stories about disney princesses’ secret lives will make you laugh out loud. 3 kickstarter comics that need to become movies. five little white lies that men tell women. lgbt iranians featured in moving visual poem: "i have always been here". fallon fox, the first transgender mma fighter, opens up to gq. you can now buy guns from the “duck dynasty” guys. os 23 gestos românticos mais bem elaborados do ano que acabou. los 23 gestos románticos más esmerados del año que pasó. after twitter started viciously attacking her over a silly joke, this girl handled it like a champ. the ultimate vines compilation of 2013 ✔. why cosplaying in 2014 is better than it was in 2004. 29 awesome things about being 29. fyi, lady gaga and christina aguilera have released a fairly legendary studio version of "do what u want". how celebrities brought in the new year. 35 famous songs about famous people. tumblr reacts to the "sherlock" season 3 premiere. 6 comics about difficult truths. shia labeouf will never stop plagiarizing. someone used a cardboard cutout of the rock to make some really hilarious and totally stupid puns. 10 new year resolutions to live by in 2014. you need to see this baby skunk wearing a onesie. out u.s. olympic delegate caitlin cahow says sochi games should be about “transcending differences”. os 36 álbuns que completarão 20 anos em 2014. 33 canciones que cumplirán 10 años en el 2014. u.s. olympic delegation member: "we’re successful, we’re gay, and we’re proud of it". these vine singers perfectly capture pop music in six second medleys. why “i suck at tinder” should be your new favorite tumblr. scene music  - free music. 10 books that will help you become a terrible person. learn to live in 2014. the 18 online beauty shops you need in your life. 33 instagrams of musicians ringing in 2014. this comic understands your google paranoia. one theory behind nest’s jaw-dropping valuation. "imitation of life" actress juanita moore dies at 99. does being cold make you sick?. author george saunders: “holding out a high vision of what art is supposed to do”. 29 breathtaking photos from hockey’s snowtastic winter classic. the 7 most viral photos on imgur in 2013. prince william takes a royal selfie with a 12-year-old. as tatuagens mais legais segundo o pinterest. rihanna hosted a luxurious new years party. 36 cosas que te harán sentir viejo. miley cyrus and ryan seacrest kissed each other at the ball drop. 6 revelations from nigella lawson’s first tv interview since "mortifying" court case. why is mindy kaling on tinder?. kaley cuoco got married in a pink wedding dress. 12 spectacular acts of wikipedia vandalism. the most expensive children’s clothes in the world. highlights from ethan embry’s "can’t hardly wait" new year’s celebration. pnh and uss syndromes - mystery diagnosis. disney world surprise thwarted. girl wants to go to mobile. alabama. powerful explosion hits beirut suburb. life of ariel sharon, in a coma, is “in danger”. the 37 most ’00s things that have ever happened. 28 promesas de año nuevo que todos los veinteañeros deberían hacer. 11 most amazing live performances by the ladies. 13 things scott disick could teach us about self-confidence. 17 delightful pictures of benedict cumberbatch as a young man. 28 beautiful quotes about libraries. 9 reasons you are already breaking your new year’s resolution. how irish are you?. 21 things that inevitably happen when you work in an office. 12 beautiful glass sculptures of things that could kill you. 13 coisas incômodas do calor do verão brasileiro. a reddit user has recreated iconic movie scenes using his boss’s dog. shia labeouf apologizes for plagiarism with skywriting, daniel clowes’ editor shoots it down. a man with two penises did a highly enlightening q&a on reddit. 22 signs you were an international school kid. assista esse vine feito de pesadelos. los mejores diseños de tatuajes según pinterest. 33 reasons why buying your first home is hell on earth. you can already buy easter eggs from nearly every supermarket. mma kitten vs adult cat & robotic dog. chinese supermarket tries to pass off fox meat as donkey meat. a british "superhero" mugged in canada has been reunited with his man bag. this super-viral will smith tweet is super fake. precious pups: new york’s chihuahua rescue home. fireworks onlookers get more than expected. one amazing thing you might have missed from “sherlock” last night. munich’s hellabrunn zoo has two new polar cubs. up close footage of a sailfish in action. the first selfies of 2014. russian research ship stuck in antarctic ice for two weeks finally free. 15 stages of finding out you are gluten intolerant. 17 signes que vous êtes un vieux enfermé dans un corps de jeune. 12 things that will enrage fashion retail personnel. michael c. hall moves on from “dexter” with a new killer role. the best recurring characters on “parks and recreation”. after i came out as a transgender man, i was asked if it felt like i had died. it only takes 19 seconds for fox news’ “the five” to cast obama as “the most left-wing president ever”. u.n. withdraws invitation to iran for syria peace talks. benedict cumberbatch reveals "sherlock" secrets and talks about the show’s future. amazing documentary about the unlikely friendship between a baby sheep, elephant and giraffe. 50 signs you grew up in the great state of minnesota. lindsay lohan showed up at sundance looking “mean girls” good. 23 festivais mundiais que você não vai querer perder. una cosa de la que miley cyrus se equivoca. 15 things you might not know about “the parent trap”. the “girls” effect is in full swing at sundance. skateboarding cat has the best day ever, is a skateboarding cat. drake as lil wayne as steve urkel. sad youtube: the lost treasures of the internet’s greatest cesspool. 4 best new babies of 2014. 29 astounding soviet propaganda images promoting racial equality. the jamaican bobsled team has officially raised the money to go to sochi. husky puppy bath. lindsay lohan beats by dre commercial. 23 moments when nick miller is ridiculously relatable. presenting the definitive worst corporate tweet of mlk day 2014. 10 signs you know you’re terrible at parking. popular 19-year-old upenn track star dies in an apparent suicide. what your favorite cocktail says about you. como descobrir se ele é para namorar. the olsen twins taught me everything i need to know about throwing a party. 40 actors who trod the boards (and what the critics said about them). las mejores 15 fotos tomadas en splash mountain. lady gaga poses outside of the louvre museum in silver dreadlocks. 25 photos that will make you feel remorse for killing bugs. richard linklater’s "boyhood" captures american youth in transition. paris hilton loves her pet ferrets. snl’s sasheer zamata as a "girls" tour guide. cats vs dogs. peter capaldi’s doctor who fan art from 1976. 10 ways 20-something females justify relationships. 20 kids at this year’s sundance film festival who totally stole the show. things everyone does on a first date but probably shouldn’t. this is what happens when you walk into a bank wearing a ski mask. lance bass’ failed journey to space made him fear for his life. the ultimate fictional players of backyard baseball 2003. ukrainian protesters built a giant catapult to fight the riot police. "sherlock’s" moriarty in his first acting job as a child is the cutest. new york republican accused of blackmailing rabbi called israeli religious leader an ‘inspiration’. 19 competências básicas de vida que deveriam ser ensinadas na escola. the 15 phases of valentines day: from pre-k to post grad. 24 “oh snap!” nba dunk gifs. el único vine de un perro que necesitas ver. this couple received a pair of pizza selfies as a wedding gift. someone’s built a massive “eat pies” sign in yorkshire. one direction dubbed with bad singing is hilarious. a definitive ranking of 45 characters from the "o.c.". why you should always facebook stalk your date. lion attacks elephant: brutal kill caught on camera. 12 strangely beautiful photos of uk floods. the kind of role that gets you an oscar. the speech that changed syria. 11 facts everyone should know about orca captivity. this is what sochi really looks like. ron jeremy’s version of “wrecking ball” is a thing of majestic beauty. if these red pandas can enjoy the snow then you should, too. this hawk taking on a snake is all of us when we realize we bit off more than we can chew. meet harley, the cutest three-year-old vine star you’ll ever see. 30 things to avoid before the age of 30. 25 must-follow twitter accounts for science nerds. 21 clever tricks to make any wedding so much easier. 15 ways dr. mindy lahiri has stepped up the fashion game. the battle of chernobyl - documentary. how much of a gentleman are you?. iran has started to take the first steps towards implementing the nuclear deal. the 11 most disturbing works of monster erotica you can buy on amazon. las 27 fotos mejor tomadas. 18 celebrities you didn’t know were really short. internet raises $30,000 in dogecoins to send jamaican bobsleigh team to the winter olympics. would iran help or hurt in geneva?. broadcasters turn to short-form video to reach younger audience. 20 réplicas de brinquedos divertidas e ridículas. 23 razones por las que hoy será el mejor día de todos. yes – this really is the perfect way to get back into reading. which simpsons character are you?. earthquake in new zealand damages giant eagle sculpture from “the hobbit”. this video of surfers filmed with a drone is extremely cool. 11 pubs that might be the oldest pub in the uk. 24 reasons why growing up in the countryside sucks. the fast and the furious (1955). a ukip councillor blamed the weather on gay marriage - and the internet reacted beautifully. emma thompson photobombed lupita nyong’o at the sag awards and it was perfect. these snow monkeys keeping warm in a hot spring are very happy with life. 16 strange things that have already happened in local newspapers this year. one direction without auto-tune spoof is the best thing on the internet. 24 ways to have the ultimate burns night supper. 18 novels that speak truth to prejudice. 14 rejected ‘lucas uses venmo’ ads. the 28 most ridiculous things to happen at this year’s sundance film festival. this little girl’s letter about marriage equality will warm your heart. la vie est dure pour les hommes (trop) bien membrés. glenn beck: “i think i played a role, unfortunately, in helping tear the country apart”. the emotional roller coaster that is being a ny islanders fan. 20 sexy moments of beyoncé. catholic school president resigns amid fallout from gay vice principal’s dismissal. 10 useless crafting skills you mastered as a child. there is no better slow dance song than "kiss me". everyday things you’re doing completely wrong. 10 of your biggest problems as an angsty adolescent. 10 things to do during canadian winter. how george takei made it through sundance. 19 cartoon-themed foods and snacks from the ’90s you might not remember. this is what happens when sofia vergara takes a nap. gaby hoffman’s character on ‘girls’ is straight from snl’s parody of the show. 9 reasons why lumpy space princess is katniss everdeen. winnie the pooh: the real story. 11 things about being lower-limb disabled you may not have known. 17 things that happen every time it snows. the head of dow jones is stepping down. sean hannity to leave new york as soon as son graduates high school, he says. 12 things you could do during the polar vortex 2. illinois lawmaker introduces bill to repeal state marriage equality law. 15 things you might not know about “chicago”.. 5 air fresheners for foodies. 15 things that happen when you fall in love with a southerner. if the little mermaid was a cat lady. michelle obama has our vote for the dunk contest. foreshadowing in the buffyverse. 10 things only people with attention problems understand. 42 photos of the powerful snow storm clobbering the east coast. 28 problems only chicago drivers will understand. 17 everyday things people do that are just awful. here’s what julia louis-dreyfus thought about elaine benes in 1998. after almost 40 years, armistead maupin is closing the book on “tales of the city”. this indian actress’s response to her racist critics is calm and powerful. heart-wrenching psa shows how domestic violence can affect the whole family. why “captain eo” is the greatest movie you’ve never seen. as the anniversary of the revolution approaches, egypt’s revolutionaries are silenced. 8 celebrity tweets you missed today. bobby shriver owned hundreds of thousands in oil and tobacco stock. “royals”: dear lorde, listen to her other songs. how bill gates learned to stop worrying about corruption. 24 musicians who somehow don’t have grammy awards lead the daily links. in immigration reform, allies must join activists. 9 banned iphone apps. dutch neuroscientist claims smoking during pregnancy can increase the chances your baby will be gay. proof that emma thompson is an older version of jennifer lawrence. as 23 comidas mais perfeitas do universo. 15 tastiest ways to eat pastrami. hungarian singer makes powerful music video showing herself being digitally retouched as she sings. twerking stormtroopers: your twerking causes a great disturbance in the force. ranking the top 20 men’s tennis players by hotness. 9 video games based on classic literature. 9 tees for hugging it out on national hugging day. 20 creative office hacks that will improve your working environment.. things every d.c. person does on their snow day. almost everything barack obama’s ever said about marijuana over the years. neel kashkari announces run for governor of california. lolo jones gets another chance at olympic medal after making u.s. bobsled team. malaysians start a twitter campaign to free a couple detained for smacking their son in sweden. this music video shows just how powerful digital retouching can be. 17 brutally honest greeting cards every married couple needs. 1 tiny dog face that will leave you breathless and melt your heart until you’re in the emergency room begging god to spare your life. 4 easy pranks you can pull right now. 29 maneiras de como a sua vida poderia ser um milhão de vezes pior. 12 datos asombrosos sobre tu cuerpo. 5 moments of lovin’ from the boise antiques roadshow. 11 comics every introvert will understand. here’s a video of rob ford using a jamaican curse word at a fast food restaurant. former virginia gov. bob mcdonnell indicted on corruption charges. 23 things that suck about living in a small town in rural america. high school senior can return to school after allegedly being suspended for doing gay porn. 19 things that are guaranteed to ruin any date. chris christie vows to "end the failed war on drugs". 10 celebrities with amazing eyebrows. quiz: which bill o’reilly are you?. 27 struggles only film students understand. here’s a pic of a young ryan gosling, britney, and xtina to gawk at. virgin sees big bucks in online gambling in new jersey. would you like to buy the "lena dunham" of couches?. the ten steps of working in a blizzard. the definitive ranking of new york city subway trains. 10 groups of fictional friends you need to join. the perils of unemployment as told by leslie knope gifs. one dead, one in custody after shooting at purdue university. 22 efeitos colaterais de se ter um emprego chato. 20 veces en que tus padres te avergonzaron en la secundaria. this is what happens when you audition for a televised singing competition. acting head of u.s. embassy in egypt named. married same-sex couples in utah sue for state recognition. nine crime shows that would have been better with magic. fight the fap: this anti masturbation message is a must see. one direction without autotune video. this is the best reading nook ever. warren buffett to insure $1 billion prize for perfect ncaa bracket. bill gates backs marijuana legalization in his state. inside kourtney kardashian’s house. it’s 1972. how the hell do you explain what a video game is?. remains identified as missing autistic teen avonté oquendo. this dog playing cards with frank sinatra is everything. 19 coisas que as pessoas juram que nunca vão fazer até terem filhos. las 23 etapas de cortarse el cabello. what fictional city should you actually live in?. pussy riot are coming to brooklyn, usa. 23 things that would happen if knitters ran the world. egyptian journo who warned of killing americans says he was “totally misunderstood”. the most inspiring classroom posters of all time. the unnecessarily censored version of disney’s "frozen" is hilarious. the sequel to "the trip" brings more amazing michael caine impressions. 17 signs you read too much ya. here is seth meyers’ kinda geeky northwestern freshman yearbook photo. usher teaches bert the meaning of the word “unique”. lingerie brand aerie isn’t retouching its models with photoshop for its new ad campaign. sweeties: a comedy sketch about frenemies. woman confronts former teacher about alleged sexual abuse, uploads entire conversation to youtube. a lot of dogs got high in 2013, but it’s not as chill as you potheads think. 20 momentos em que os seus pais te envergonharam no colégio. 15 formas maravillosas de mejorar tu armario. the internet’s most popular passwords are all really terrible. 21 corgis who will make you say “dat ass”. 12 surprising upsides to being unemployed. times of india front-page headline: “homosexuality unnatural: ex-head of shrinks”. 18 signs you went to university in the mid-’00s. zac efron playing with a monkey wearing a diaper on tv is all you need today. tell us about yourself(ie): lake bell. 24 signs you’re more mature than you think. federal appeals court says jurors can’t be excluded because they are gay. urban outfitters convinces regulators it shouldn’t have to report store and web sales separately. edward snowden is running to be rector of the university of glasgow. 23 delicious ways to cook a pork shoulder. russian coach says women shouldn’t ski jump because it distracts them from housework. snowden lawyer says nsa leaker fears for life, will ask russia for protection. the u.s. secretary of energy looks just like the bad guy from "no country for old men". 35 unanswered questions from jesse and the ripper’s “forever” music video. cosima is the best clone on "orphan black" because science says so. idris elba shows off his "sexy look". you won’t believe what happened on this cat. the 10 stages of flaking on plans. get "frozen" again as elsa sings "let it go" in 25 languages. 22 coisas que podem facilmente arruinar o dia de qualquer homem. 22 cosas que pueden arruinar fácilmente el día de cualquier hombre. las 14 fashion bloggers sudamericanas que tienes que seguir en instagram. when benedict cumberbatch met robert downey jr.. watch nancy grace debate herself over marijuana. what it’s like in new york when it snows. incredibly badass photo of an old woman walking through the ukrainian riots. 19 scientific reasons why you should take more naps. what’s your fortune cookie destiny?. which buzzfeed quiz are you?. michelle obama videobombs the miami heat with a nerf dunk. ron jeremy does “wrecking ball”. 12 historic bars every book nerd needs to visit. two people arrested at texas border in connection with massive target data breach. mamrie hart settles once and for all if babies or baby animals are cuter. a lot of new things at nbc. 13 ways lindsay lohan is an instagram expert. jennifer lawrence got "homeland" spoiled for her while being introduced to brody himself. david beckham is joining “only fools and horses”. a personal middle east conflict in the fight for palestine. florida same-sex couples sue in state court for right to marry. tradições de casamento ao redor do mundo. 39 perros que te harán cuestionar la evolución. asu fraternity expelled after throwing a super-racist martin luther king day party. 33 scary things our moms didn’t know they had to be afraid of. kiera knightley at the uk premiere of ‘jack ryan: shadow recruit’. allison williams at the christian dior show during paris fashion week. kate bosworth at the christian dior show during paris fashion week. mayim bialik at the 20th annual screen actors guild awards. emilia clarke at the 20th annual screen actors guild awards. cate blanchett at the 20th annual screen actors guild awards. kaley cuoco at the 20th annual screen actors guild awards. malin akerman at the 20th annual screen actors guild awards. lady gaga at the versace haute couture fashion show 2014/2015 in paris. 8 ways you may be polluting our lakes and streams—without knowing it. federal agents allegedly detain a man for wearing google glass in a movie theater. lupita nyong’o at the 19th annual critics’ choice movie awards in santa monica. adele exarchopoulos at the 19th annual critics’ choice movie awards in santa monica. cate blanchett at the 19th annual critics’ choice movie awards in santa monica. juliette lewis at the 19th annual critics’ choice movie awards in santa monica. sandra bullock at the 19th annual critics’ choice movie awards in santa monica. “the guardian” just got a £600 million payday. 10 awesome diy projects for bloggers. there’s a new google glass app to use while having sex. the 10 necessities of steampunk. tom from “vanderpump rules” performed shakespeare with his shirt off. why would a major network cut back on latino news?. what was your favorite tv show when you were a kid?. 19 coisas que só os geminianos entendem. 20 things that are absolutely true on your birthday. 22 efectos secundarios de tener un trabajo aburrido. these stunning pictures could soon be all that are left of the world’s rarest lions. the “harry potter” guide to the u.k.. cutest puppy and baby video of the day. american kids keep snorting smarties and it’s giving them nose maggots. 30 things guys in their thirties are afraid to admit. 17 reasons j.k. rowling should seriously consider publishing a "harry potter" prequel. 7 beautiful timelapse gifs that show coral is alive. everything you need to know about kiev’s brutal protest standoff. 8 times famous actors appear when you least expect it. how to master your email in 2014. tony gallagher no longer “daily telegraph” editor. how social media users are going mobile in three charts. 3d gifs are a thing now, and they’re really quite cool. 11 pairs of meggings that prove that meggings should not exist. there’s a twitter account that just tweets tv listings from thirty years ago today. china has finally lifted its ban on lady gaga. 27 stages you have to go through to find a new flatmate. you have to see this guy’s “breakfast club”-inspired application to work at buzzfeed. more young people are living with their parents than ever before. 9 fantastic unseen photos of english life in the 1960’s and 1970’s. the uk’s first motorway pub has just opened. “only fools” fans have been leaving lovely graffiti tributes to actor roger lloyd-pack. wrestling a grizzly bear in my garden. “the bachelor” gif recap week 3: kicking balls. 15 reasons logan echolls was the best part of "veronica mars". listen to a freshly unearthed 1962 speech from martin luther king. the 21 loveliest places to go for a date in london. 21 ways to take mashed potatoes to the next level. this might be the greatest police sketch of all time. 9 reasons the world is better than ever, according to bill and melinda gates. 5 times julia lipnitskaia’s flexibility will take your breath away. the 20 most important dogs at this year’s sundance film festival. les 28 calvaires des filles aux gros seins. a ’90s kid’s childhood vs. the childhood of kids today. why zach braff’s “wish i was here” won’t be refunding its kickstarter backers. 22 times “the vampire diaries” had the answer. 14 urinals you have to pee in before you die. 17 signs you might be really obsessed with your cat. 23 ways to know you’ve had your butt kicked by jillian michaels. north carolina republican senate candidate’s organization’s old website full of conspiracy theory blog posts. stop everything you’re doing and watch these pug puppies fall asleep. some of our favorite moments from the nfl playoffs. “one direction without autotune” is the best one direction. 11 signs you have no idea whats happening on “pretty little liars”. 10 things you’ll need to throw a groundhog’s day party. u.s. military eases rules on turbans, beards, skullcaps, and other religious items. there’s a high school basketball team in pittsburgh with four sets of twins. the only heartwarming "that’s what she said" joke. the 23 punniest nail polish color names ever. in capturing san francisco, "looking" and "tales of the city" share common ground. this 1998 report on “sex on the web” is both funny and weirdly relevant. in "power play," indiana gop lawmakers advance marriage ban out of committee. 18 things that happen when you move a lot. 7 eye-catching graphic tees that you should buy right now. the “full house” dads reunited for a superbowl ad about greek yogurt. rob ford calls video of him drunkenly swearing in a jamaican accent a “minor setback”. amazon yesterday shipping. 23 choses qui effraient les parisiens. what it’s like to have a hit movie at sundance. ap photographer admits syrian war picture was photoshopped. how it feels to do “insanity” for the first time. this new old spice video is the most hilarious internet ad so far this year. richard sherman: “people behind computer screens” have no defense. is google about to get into bitcoin?. this photo of aaliyah and nicole richie dressed up as the spice girls is amazing. 11 reasons henderson’s relish is way better than worcester sauce. how a young iranian bisexual filmmaker’s family helped her get to sundance. chris pratt’s ode to jean-claude van damme is his most inappropriate song yet. netflix ceo makes nasty crack about his hbo rival. 7 awesome items from shark tank. 33 reasons why donna meagle should be your hero. 7 “facts” about the brain that are not true. american eagle ceo mysteriously resigns after less than two years. 29 denim brands you totally forgot existed. cool stuff to check out in the pacific northwest. 10 things only pinterest lovers will understand lead the daily links. netflix caps flawless year by adding another 2.3 million subscribers. 10 things that happened in f.r.i.e.n.d.s that would never happen irl. fictional characters designed to scare the hell out of you as a child. utah’s lawyer in marriage case cites religious duty in defending amendment. everyday technology you’re using wrong. the truth about lady farts. just a pair of casual cat buns. anne hathaway at the premiere of ‘song one’ in park city. maggie gyllenhaal at the ‘frank’ premiere in park city. target to stop offering health care to part-time employees. jimmy fallon and bill gates experienced a very awkward moment together. rooney mara at the premiere of ‘the one i love’ in park city. elisabeth moss at the premiere of ‘the one i love’ in park city. rachel mcadams revealed her favorite "mean girls" lines, 10 years later. shailene woodley at the ‘white bird in a blizzard’ premiere in park city. a german retirement community did a calendar where seniors amazingly re-created famous movie scenes. lilly allen at the chanel show during paris fashion week. tilda swinton at the chanel show during paris fashion week. 17 signs you go to the goizueta business school. carl icahn wants ebay to spin off paypal. what famous person should you get high with?. scary facts about cheating you never knew. oh, just benedict cumberbatch accepting an award on tv in swimming shorts. 27 signs you are a shiba inu. what it’s really like to work in an office. why michigan is way better without a mascot. jonah hill pokes fun of his huge ego in new “snl” promos. 10 signs you’re a total aquarius. 13 razones por las que no encajar como niño te hace un adulto impresionante. "mockingjay" poster soars online. officer who shot young black man after he was in car accident will not be indicted. "transgender dysphoria blues" is proof that rock still matters. 14 books every food lover should read. superhuman facts about babies. ranking the ten seasons of friends. 23 essential snacks every super bowl party should have. guy backflips and takes out a krispy kreme sign. #readwomen2014 aims to bring gender equality to the literary world. a man was arrested 45 minutes after sharing his own wanted poster on facebook. why valentine’s day is the worst. openly gay mayor of houston shuts down critics after marrying her longtime partner. 13 gothic unicorn goodies. only in china: balcony drapes made of moist bacon. whatever happened to the “death panel”?. 27 reasons perkins is the holiest & most perfect of restaurants. 29 sinais de que você foi criado por hippies. tradiciones únicas de bodas alrededor del mundo. this is what would happen if lestrade got his own "sherlock" spin-off. the 17 worst things to ever happen in fashion. 19 signs your best friend might be a serial killer. if adults got excited like little kids. the 37 worst translated movie titles ever. arnold schwarzenegger goes undercover at a gym. a good day for the syrian opposition. 10 pieces of photographic evidence that roger federer is back kicking ass and taking names. 23 interesting facts about instagram. capitalism: a love story. there might be something wrong with people magazines oscar section. 24 gatinhos que estão muito solteiros. 19 cosas que la gente jura no hacer hasta que tienen hijos. 26 moments when you were too romantic for your own good. 15 cat butt products that prove cat lovers have no limits. billionaire’s club. 31 gifs so perfectly looped that it’s physically gratifying. why no one ignores heather locklear. 37 super bowl snacks better than hot wings. 20 ways to know you’re a crossfitter. the 10 types of people no one should date. the definitive ranking of hair metal hair. talksport shuts down twitter accounts following stan collymore abuse. snakes are the most badass animals on earth. carl icahn is buying up a lot more of apple’s stock. why the makers of candy crush saga are threatening a tiny indie studio. the is the greatest song about best friends you’ll ever hear. 31 fantastic fictional characters you want to spend a snow day with. anti-hillary group calls for investigation into super pac’s email list rental. 12 bares históricos que todo apaixonado por livros precisa visitar. 33 cosas terriblemente ingeniosas que necesita tu pequeño apartamento. 6 reasons why you should watch the next winter olympics. 28 rules to be the quintessential mexican charro. without a single word, this short film encourages women to speak out about sexual abuse. election commission: kids should stay away from schools being used as polling places on election day. quentin tarantino cancels his next movie after script leaks. this blueberry muffin looks exactly like this chihuahua. nobody is more excited about the snow in nyc than suri cruise. 23 people who aren’t afraid of a little snow. world economic forum drops ukrainian prime minister as protesters die in kiev. cães e gatos tem um jeito hilariamente diferente de cuidar dos filhotes. 18 problemas que sólo los hombres con miembros grandes comprenderán. 15 u.s. olympians posing with a siberian husky puppy is the cutest thing you’ll see today. this anchorwoman blunder is ron burgundy levels of hilarious. old spice awesomely pranks the internet with fake ads. jon stewart takes a look at this year’s "homophobic olympics". procrastination is fun because…science!. which decade do you actually belong in?. 11 whisky-based cocktails for the perfect burns night. this teenager edited together a spinning go-pro selfie that spans 8 countries and almost two years. what it’s like to read a great book, as told in gifs. a harry potter prequel. a war correspondent’s work: 5 great free books by richard harding davis. a bizarre argument has broken out among mps about britain’s best spicy sauce. white house unveils initiative to combat sexual assault on college campuses. the hypocrisy of “the bachelor”. 17 reasons betty who will blow up the music scene in 2014. the 15 stages of a breakup according to sherlock. this hairless cat looks like a dumb, naked potato. one direction will make you want to watch “sesame street” again. it’s 2014 and our passwords aren’t getting better. ricky rubio plays catch with a little girl during a timeout. 17 atmospheric pictures of the london underground with no-one around. sleeping in toilet god mode. 9 times doctor christian won at twitter. 21 truques inteligentes para facilitar bastante qualquer casamento. el gato patinador tiene el mejor día de su vida, porque es un gato patinador. fahrenheit 2014: 11 books that are still banned today. 16 quotes that will make you want to cuddle up with a book. arnold schwarzenegger went undercover as a trainer at a gold’s gym. 17 must-have funny valentine’s day cards. lena dunham and hamish bowles dance for "vogue" inspiration. 30 products that will save your sensitive skin. bernie madoff is recovering from a heart attack. what is your dream job?. 18 problemas que apenas os homens com membros grandes irão entender. 18 famosos que no sabías que eran realmente pequeños. meanwhile on tinder, a naked man on a unicorn. andy samberg skiing down broadway. 8 things to know about obamacare in 2014. this maths geek gamed okcupid and found his future wife. 25 reasons andy dwyer should be your life coach. the norwegian olympic curling team’s uniform is just so perfect right now. 10 people you may not have known were teachers and professors. 24 photos incroyables de villes vues du ciel. 18 celebridades que você não sabia que eram muito baixinhos. los gatos y los perros tienen estilos de crianza graciosamente diferentes. syria citizen journalists come to switzerland to cover peace talks, get attacked by assad supporters. the 26 greatest fake london underground signs in the history of fake london underground signs. watch the best exit from a reality show ever. what happens to parody twitter accounts once the news story is over?. “24” has started filming in london. simon cowell’s company advertised for unpaid interns. microlight flies with rare birds. 23 experiências que fazem você se orgulhar de ser uma pessoa caseira. 19 cosas que solo los géminis entienden. a star just exploded in a nearby galaxy. 34 reasons why lily allen is the queen of nail art. can the internet help decode a grandmother’s dying words?. how welsh are you?. 12 nuggets of wisdom from karl pilkington. the 28 most distressing first world problems on instagram. cnbc plans to name the top 25 ceos of the last 25 years. the most hypnotic gifs you’ve ever seen. simpsons illustrator david silverman tweeted a load of early sketches and they’re predictably wonderful. cara delevingne defends twerking in a very cara delevingne way. noel gallagher’s grumpy dvd commentary is a work of comedic genius. brenda walsh’s style crimes on “beverly hills 90210”. watch as this hungarian singer gets photoshopped in real time as she sings. this liverpool fan’s reaction to a player getting injured is hilarious. liam gallagher has shaved his hair off. this artist makes brilliant celebrity portraits with food. 25 signs that you attend byu. three activists in kiev have reportedly been killed. apple’s iconic new york city “cube” store shattered during snowstorm. 8-year-old boy saves six family members from fire but dies trying to save a seventh. the perentie is the most bad-ass australian animal you’ve never heard of. the top 4 times hannibal buress has performed “gibberish rap”. this “british” ghost town on the outskirts of shanghai will freak you out. 10 reasons why you should give itv/pbs’s mr. selfridge another try. warm up with dogs in hawaiian shirts. 21 signes qui montrent que vous n’êtes pas fait pour le sport. 14 reasons “hey ya” has the most perfect music video ever. did a rapper’s murder bring down greece’s neo-nazi party?. which college should you actually go to?. proof that justin bieber and miley cyrus are the same person. how to write about transgender people. “community” and childish gambino mash-up is cool, cool, cool. 12 ridiculous and genius flasks that actually exist. 9 things we learned from edward snowden’s live q&a. what kim pham’s death tells us we’re doing wrong. dinesh d’souza and wendy long once had to apologize for a hitler quote in their school paper. doctor who meets cards against humanity. 2014 is the year of the viral debunk. massive chinese new year migration in gifs. 11 celebrity #tbt photos you may have missed this week. 8 awesome kids with awesome pets. 14 best diy valentines day gifts. 30 catastrophes that plague the life of every london girl. menendez spokesperson: fbi investigation story full of “outlandish allegations”. illinois lawmaker wants to broaden religious exemptions in marriage equality law. the definitive proof that benedict cumberbatch is a time lord. how two comedy mavericks got their own tv show and remained true to themselves in the process. laverne cox is making waves for all the right reasons. undocuyouth respond to bieber arrest and possible deportation with #undeportable selfies. syrian electronic army hacks cnn’s twitter account. new york state financial regulator subpoenas student debt relief companies. 19 paradoxical statements that perfectly describe your life. dinesh d’souza charged with election fraud. 16 tasty twists on classic aussie treats. dream casting: mr. ed, the motion picture. britney spears already has the biggest las vegas residency of the year. check out these animals that are not okay. 17 reasons why chop’t is king of salad. at least three dead in massive pileup on indiana interstate. 7 college courses you won’t believe actually exist. 17 reasons why i would make a good associate community editor at buzzfeed. 23 things that made your 90s childhood awesome. vine celebrates its first birthday with an insanely good vine compilation. 10 types of celebrities as told by mug shots. 8 celebrity tweets you missed today. 52 things only ’90s teenage guys can understand. could justin bieber be deported for his run-ins with the law?. the 18 most embarrassing things marnie has done on "girls". the ultimate ranking of common sex positions. what’s your home state’s signature cocktail?. apple’s mythical tv could add $40 billion in revenue says hedge fund manager. 24 señales que eres más maduro de lo que piensas. 33 coisas incrivelmente inteligentes que você precisa ter no seu apartamento pequeno. learn to go down the stairs with these exemplary parents. 16 tricks women can use to master public speaking. bad day? look at these pictures of pygmy hippopotamuses. which member of the bluth family are you?. fox news poll shows majority of americans support path to citizenship for undocumented immigrants. impossible twin coincidences. 14 reasons you should visit your local sex shop. this first grader shaved his head so his best friend with cancer wouldn’t feel alone. 10 heaviest black sabbath songs. two freshmen floormates discover they’re actually sisters. katy perry prayed for bigger boobs and god delivered. 12 reasons dick casablancas was the best part of “veronica mars”. the definitive playlist for every dance-aholic. 15 young people convinced they are super old. una comunidad de jubilados alemanes hizo un calendario en el que recrearon  asombrosamente escenas de películas famosas. 11 fatos que todo mundo deveria saber sobre o cativeiro de orcas. indian woman allegedly gang-raped on orders from her village council. 27 awesome nail art designs for australia day. why flynn rider and kristoff are the same person. what nintendo character are you?. 17 fictional characters who’d make terrible real-life friends lead the daily links. celebrity real estate: ellen, rick ross, and christina ricci. we tried out these upsetting vintage recipes and it was just as horrifying as you’d expect. 22 reasons why straight white boys are actually the worst. zac efron being kind of a jerk. 12 delightfully passive aggressive comics. the 18 most epic expressions of love one could only hope for. 21 times kelly kapowski taught us how to live. salt and ice challenge on tongue - freezing bubbles | top challenges #29. the 11 most overrated types of sex. gatos tiram selfies (melhor que você). omfg oreo’s new cookie dough flavor is real. 20 fantastically flexible photos by nikita zolotarev. why madison holleran’s story matters. why on earth is this borderline crappy, impossibly hard game the most popular download on the app store?. this is just what lambs do when you pick them up. 30 coisas que você deveria evitar antes de completar 30 anos. fotos horrendas de los 22 años de matrimonio de bruce y kris jenner. "revenge porn king" hunter moore charged with stealing hundreds of nude photos in email hacking scheme. 10 most random avengers of all time. deaf nfl player responds to hearing-impaired little girl with encouraging letter. “the vampire diaries” welcomes back a familiar face for the 100th episode. vladimir putin’s new unlikely allies: prepare to be disappointed. 9 unretouched photos of disney princesses that disney didn’t want you to see. quiz: match the celebrity with the arrest quote. colin jost is the perfect replacement for seth meyers on weekend update. meet ricky the rockhopper: zsl london zoo’s coolest penguin. white house press secretary: huckabee’s “uncle sugar” comments “offensive to women”. the 11 most hilarious celebrity mug shots. disney princess portraits that will make you question your sexuality. the only reasonable thing to do with an old copy of “you got served”. 2 gifs of justin bieber’s mugshot morphing into miley cyrus’ face that prove they look identical. 24 sinais de que você é mais maduro do que pensa. 11 fotos increíblemente importantes de un bebé cubierto en bulldogs franceses. this flowchart is the only guide you need to having sex in medieval times. the most important part of justin biebers time in jail. 17 signs you’re not a makeup person. 23 sexy actors who could serenade you to sleep. the victoria line’s signal room is filled with cement and everyone is tweeting the same joke. las respuestas de exámenes más ridículas de la historia. 5 staircases mc escher would be proud of. monkey’s crazy cat tunnel game. why being unfollowed can feel like having your heart ripped out. virginia attorney general tells court same-sex marriage ban is unconstitutional. check out these two brothers as they re-create photos from their childhood. 17 reasons why catdance is better than sundance. there is now a gif award show, in case the internet needed to explode more. “snl” announces seth meyers’ weekend update replacement. 24 kick-ass ways to cook homemade seitan. 32 celebrities who have been arrested for duis. 10 cell phones you’ll never forget. 13 reasons why tim gunn’s “under the gunn” is flawless. team usa’s opening ceremony uniform goes for a bold new look. o gato skatista que teve o melhor dia de todos os tempos é um gato skatista. cantora húngara faz um clipe impactante mostrando ela mesma sendo retocada digitalmente enquanto canta. 20 cosas que se ven mejores en cámara lenta. 15 quintessentially new york city terms. can you guess the classic novel from its first sentence?. 8 of the best idgaf celebrity mugshots. london underground’s victoria line is closed after someone poured cement into the control room. this is most impressive nail art you’ll see today. 11 reasons wonder woman is the real star of the justice league. 33 moments in life that are more important than you think. 10 things we learned from katy perry in her gq interview. andy cohen apologizes on “today” show after joking about “that poor lesbian reporter”. barry diller’s match.com follows howaboutwe into business of planning dates for couples. you can now buy your own "sad keanu" action figure. 12 other crimes against humanity that justin bieber has committed. 19 things that the new york times magazine “planet hillary” cover looks like. everything you need to know about universal’s "wizarding world of harry potter: diagon alley". what it’s like to not watch “american horror story: coven”. tell us about yourself(ie): mark ghanimé. 34 motivos pelos quais lily allen é a rainha de arte nas unhas. 27 gatos que podrían ser modelos.. sarah silverman is visited by jesus christ. 19 songs to warm you up on a chilly day. 13 times people were batman in real life. 12 affiches de films cultes recréées par des seniors. herbalife dives 12% after senator calls for investigation. here’s an absolutely awful snapshot of what the internet is going to look like all day today. competition & comrades: women aren’t meant to be friends. the heartwarming story of stockings the kitten. 26 reasons the nba in the ’90s was awesome. "the big lebowski" as an nes game is genius. casting mary jane watson. kurt vonnegut made a tv show!. 16 signs you were an english major. here’s justin bieber’s mugshot. video appears to show ukranian police humiliating naked protester. 33 coisas assustadoras que nossas mães nem sabiam que deviam temer. 23 cosas que sucederían si los tejedores manejaran el mundo. 14 darkly romantic heart gifts for your valentine. 11 things that would only happen in florida. 13 young, secular people who also believe abortion is wrong. 15 things that happen when you fall in love with a big can of soup. close encounter with humpback whale. the definitive ranking of dog treat flavors according to humans. 21 things no one tells you about having a baby. the internet reacted hilariously to justin bieber’s arrest. 10 reasons that social skills are important in running a mercenary company. 6 enlightening revelations from a porn star training video. why carole king is the greatest artist of all time. 19 motivos científicos pelos quais você deveria cochilar mais. these hilariously wrong “harry potter” subtitles will make you cry with laughter. 19 cosas que garantizan arruinar cualquier cita. 17 hilariously terrible movies everyone should see. 11 delicious and sexy martinis for winter nights. 12 magazine covers that perfectly sum-up hip-hop’s golden era. 12 mind-bending facts about your brain. the 2013 kitsches finalists. signs you’re an over-the-top chicago sports fan. let’s talk about the ‘titanic’ door mistake. 17 most shocking moments from the first 99 episodes of "the vampire diaries". 15 things all metalheads will appreciate. the marriage equality movement is getting ready to go back to the supreme court. 20 abandoned british buildings that are all kinds of weird. 25 reasons why leonardo dicaprio will win an oscar for ‘the wolf of wall street’. all of the dresses and fashion from the ntas. egypt widens crackdown with new charges against prominent academics and activists. justin bieber arrested for dui and drag racing in miami beach. 14 jaw-droppingly gorgeous celebrity portraits. a definitive ranking of carrie’s "sex and the city" questions, from most banal to most profound. an angry, drunk manchester united fan called 999 to speak to sir alex ferguson. whose policy: ukip or monster raving loony party?. police violence in india drives a gay couple to the u.s. — and a detention cell. sen. leahy calls for more aggressive policy against countries that violate lgbt rights. why you should be watching the midnight beast. urban explorers scale london’s walkie talkie tower in daring climb. cnn tweeted an upworthy-ish headline, and it really didn’t go down that well on twitter. this baby koala drinking a bottle of water is ridiculously cute. the 19 stages of pregnancy from a man’s perspective. becoming a teacher: expectation vs reality. the ntas, as told by celebrity selfies. hassan rouhani at davos: “regional cooperation a priority”. the definitive ranking of london tube lines. 25 mouthwatering facts about fish and chips. 9 underwhelming london homes that cost £1 million or more. 10 reasons why i love ron swanson. ladies and gentlemen… this is how you apply for a job.. 9 examples of why fish are chill as hell. 10 things you probably didn’t know about the movie “10 things i hate about you”. throw it back: today in music history - january 23. why you’ll be paying your student loans forever. disney’s best animal sidekicks. giant waves up to 50 feet high batter hawaii’s beaches. 14 alternative australian flags that don’t feature britain’s flag too. driver captures stunning video of meteor streaking across dallas sky. the 20 most pittsburgh things that ever happened. the art of an olympic boycott: moscow 1980 vs sochi 2014. subaru made a badass commercial inspired by "attack on titan". which musical should you star in?. surprise trust fall - ranch dressing chug - dog food | top challenges #31. these tattoos of celebrities on people’s actual bodies will upset you. will ferrell’s top 10 movie characters. new film suggests whitey bulger may not have been an fbi informant. the shocking celebrity voices behind some of your favorite cartoon characters. quiz: is it vegan?. the curious case of queer love on nbc’s "dracula". 18 signs you went to emory university. 12 grammy facts that prove the awards kind of mean nothing. 23 melhores versículos da bíblia das celebridades. student killed in south carolina state university shooting. 17 of the most devastating first world problems. how dogs grieve for their scattered children. skyrim in real life. big wave surfers take on monster waves at 2014 mavericks contest. powerful colour photos from world war one. 21 sundance movies you need to know about. the 11 stages of going home to the countryside. a-z art history. cool octopus hand drawn canvas shoes. the “spoiler alert” hasn’t been around forever. this local brewery announced job cuts and look what the workers did in return…. lego simpsons house time lapse build. richard sherman has been fined for making choking gesture during nfc title game. 16 celebrity instagrams you need to see this week. things you miss after graduating college. ukraine visa bans said to include top government officials. there’s home surveillence footage of justin bieber allegedly drag racing. 30 times heathcliff proved that he’s a total sociopath. 13 metal albums worth having.. 13 of the most adorable little princesses at disneyland. jamie dimon’s pay raise after tumultuous year for jpmorgan elicits mixed reactions. 15 benefits of being a tall girl. this ‘95 beverly hills high yearbook is a real-life version of “clueless”. “the rink” (1916) - charlie chaplin. this “twin peaks” and “welcome to night vale” mash up is flawless. unusual roku channels that actually exist. 21 pointlessly gendered products. what disney really doesn’t want you to know about their princesses. same-sex couple takes oklahoma marriage case to federal appeals court. the 28 most subtly ingenious things karl pilkington has ever said. this important video of tom hiddleston shirtless and sword fighting will ruin your life. ranking frankenstein’s monsters by hotness. 10 variations on ‘la stessa, la stessissima’ by salieri [woo 73]. this deer would totally beat you in a fart contest. george zimmerman accused of copying associated press photo in latest painting. how smart are you, anyway?. so much happened when zac efron, miles teller and michael b. jordan went on spanish television. 7 beautifully bizarre marriage proposal locations lead the daily links. this ad campaign will make you rethink the way you see underprivileged single mothers. tortoises are being defaced in order to save them from poachers. 16 things australians take for granted. chad johnson doesn’t want men sending him pictures of their butts anymore. what its like to watch “the land before time” as an adult. and now for some flawless stormtroopers twerking their troubles away. justin bieber compares himself to michael jackson. georgia republican congressman surprised middle eastern man wasn’t given pat down at airport. supreme court exempts religious nonprofits from contraception mandate paperwork during appeal. sexy serial killers and cute cats. 8 reasons why “outside mullingar” is debra messing’s best gig yet. snoop dogg poses for inexplicable instagram with a korean fan in blackface. 9 secret uses for your everyday bathroom products. one amazing thing you’ve never noticed in “mean girls”. this teen has been instagramming amazing pictures of himself dressed as different u.s. presidents. l.a. democrat purchased as much as $1.1 million in oil and gas stocks in 2010. how to be a dick at a party. 10 spectacular national parks to visit in 2014 for $80. 15 very unique ryan gosling items you can buy on etsy. this shiba and cat traveling duo will ignite wanderlust and most definitely explode your heart. republicans say they need to stand up to democrats’ “deceptive war on women rhetoric”. things i overheard at this year’s sundance film festival. over 30 people missing after a deadly fire ravages a senior-citizens home in canada. 9 feature stories we’re reading this week: greek neo nazis, barack obama, and swingers. the sad truth behind (most) revolutions. this girl’s snapchat has the best guest stars. 8 reasons a catcall is not a compliment. 23 reasons richard sherman is actually one of the most likable players in the nfl. german olympic uniforms through the ages. 31 gifs hechos tan perfectamente que son físicamente gratificantes. 18 coisas que acontecem quando você se muda muito. the top 90 one-hit wonders of the 2000s. what kind of mormon are you, really?. the republican party used to defend nsa spying. “friends” as told by upworthy-style headlines. ed sheeran rescued a kitten. nbc’s live production of “peter pan” should have a female lead. the amazing story of one shark attack survivor’s return to the water. 19 coisas que são garantia de arruinar qualquer encontro. muppet facts you need to know. tv confidential archives: show no. 217 with guests joe franklin and julian david stone. jamiroquai’s "virtual insanity" with no music and added sound effects is hilarious. happy 28th birthday, mischa marissa cooper barton!. this is what a conference call would look like in real life. conan o’brien breaks the bad news about spanx. the 6 most heart-warming moments from “the undateables”. the best super bowl commercials we’ve seen in years past. 28 reasons why bruce lee was better than your favorite superhero. 21 things your white boyfriend needs to hear according to twitter. demi lovato debuts a new look. 12 grains that will give your salad mad street cred. former dallas cowboy convicted of killing teammate will only spend 180 days in jail. 19 highly important zoo animal reviews. 27 reasons anne hathaway is actually america’s sweetheart. bad lip reading of the nfl is back with another video!. 33 cosas a las que nuestras madres no pensaban que debían temerle. uma comunidade alemã de aposentados fez um calendário onde recriaram cenas famosas de filmes. which black best friend from the ’90s are you?. why new yorkers should stop whining about bill de blasio’s snow removal fail. what’s your favorite disney movie?. this video of a man getting hugged by a seal will make you infinitely jealous. the 25 stages of having a snow day in college. car crash supercut # 31. star wars and marvel had a twitter duel and it was epic. u.s. citizen taken from his apartment in cairo by egyptian security officials. jamie dimon will get paid $20 million for 2013. meet the cutest and cuddliest couple on instagram. crack-smoking mayor rob ford was a clue on jeopardy. bieber coverage proves that msnbc is back in the breaking news business. stargazing in the canadian rockies - a night sky timelapse. adam scott and paul rudd bring us "the greatest event in television history: bosom buddies". which pop diva are you?. britain’s first same-sex marriage could take place two weeks earlier than previously reported. here are the first photos of justin bieber after his dui arrest. 21 coisas que ninguém lhe conta sobre ter um bebê. 28 normas para ser el charro mexicano por excelencia. how your city is trying to sell itself to the rnc. the day a fluffy samoyed learned what a hug was. the 18 biggest problems if you’re from yorkshire. seth rogen gives scarlett johansson a run for her money in this “her” parody. the mockingjay poster is here!. sorry, guy: math can’t get you a girlfriend. why "bring it on" is the best movie in the whole wide world. este gato sem pelo parece uma batata branca e inerte. emmy rossum gets the scariest facial ever. 25 signs you drink too much wine. 34 razones por las que lily allen es la reina de la manicura. this is what happens when a photo editing team has free time in the office. os 11 tipos de sexo mais superestimados. bitcoin falls flat among davos crowd. stop everything and look at this photo of justin bieber. 31 last-minute super bowl party tips that will make your life easier. this woman’s snapchat selfies are some of the most impressive you’ll probably ever see. the perfect response to someone asking for nudes. 27 truly magnificent peanut butter desserts. a hollywood-style sign just appeared in bristol. 29 struggles that only people with big butts will understand. snoop dogg poses with firefighters who were called to his australian hotel room. 10 design trends for 2014. 19 razones científicas por las que deberías tomar más siestas. metropolitan police records 117 clown-related incidents in last year. the 21 most popular waffle houses in america. everything we know about justin bieber’s lamborghini girl pal. the definitive ranking of "star wars" planets. relax, there isn’t a cannibal rat-infested ghost ship headed for the uk. 7 things we’ve learnt from “celebrity big brother”. 18 amazing places to visit in britain in 2014. real life soviet atlantis: underwater museum in ukraine. the 21 artists with the most grammy awards. which tv dad is actually your father?. 22 mensonges de la vie adulte. 9 weirdly plausible fake "new scientist" headlines. this skull is made out of street cocaine. it’s now illegal to sell irn bru and marmite in canada. what would celebrities look like if they hadn’t become famous?. east london is rough and west london is posh, according to londoners. this weird, gross mumsnet thread might just be the new “penis beaker”. zach braff took over donald faison’s reddit ama and it was hilarious. 5 questions people with tattoo’s are sick of hearing. 11 reasons why we all love ant & dec. it turns out the view from an raf typhoon is pretty terrifying. thirteen things women have to deal with that men don’t. multiple explosions hit cairo on eve of uprising anniversary. mantis shrimp don’t live in a magical technicolour world after all. 25 ways trains are the most glorious way to travel. 21 things only british jews know to be true. 15 hilariously sexy valentine’s day gifts. zills and js through the years!. 21 drunken foods that will change the way you party. how to know you’re “over it”. justin bieber talks “the f word”. 14 reasons why the quokka is just so gosh darn happy. 18 reactions we all had while watching frozen. 27 crazy things done for love. 9 videos you can’t miss this week. 14 retratos increíblemente hermosos de celebridades. check out 19-year-old johnny depp playing guitar. if the bbc had been behind disney’s great mouse detective. 23 coisas que aconteceriam se as pessoas que tricotam governassem o mundo. the 23 types of people you’re friends with on facebook. former venture capitalist worth $8 billion compares criticism of rich to nazi germany. struggling little league hockey player gets some help from a friendly ref. 5 things europeans do not understand in america. gmail goes down and everyone freaks out. threadless picks the grammys!. the 10 most awkward parts of travelling alone. syrian opposition has first face-off with regime in geneva. reporter smashes justin bieber cd on live tv. the definitive ranking of every britney spears video. satirical news update from this week in the world rob ford drinking stupor!. welcome to the street that looks and sounds like a willy. 10 struggles new yorkers face, as told by beyoncé gifs. this bra that only unhooks for “true love” is basically a chastity belt. supersize vs superskinny : season 1 / episode 1 - “tatiana and sandra”. 23 things you may not know about tim burton and his movies. 21 cosas que nadie te dice acerca de tener un bebé. terrifying facts about snakes that will give you nightmares. best netflix knock-offs. 17 things celebrities did this week. as 17 piores coisas que já aconteceram no mundo da moda. 21 mutts muggin’. on anniversary of revolution, 29 people killed. this video will change the way you watch fight club forever. 14 serious reasons to get your laughter on. 15 of the most charming first ladies. why no one should worry about team usa’s outfits looking silly. the most fab and drab celebrity outfits of the week. the definitive ranking of snl’s weekend update anchors. für elise - ludwig van beethoven. los 11 tipos de sexo más sobrestimados. two store employees and gunman dead in maryland mall shooting. 26 reasons why squirrels have better lives than humans. the “baby-sitters club” guide to friendship. 9 things to do when buzzfeed’s lol section isn’t updating. what food matches your personality?. 31 cuddly and delicious beds of polenta. 14 retratos de celebridades de cair o queixo. 10 super bowl facts you should know. b.j. novak and mindy kaling remind us they have the best friendship ever in his new book trailer. 13 easy steps to understanding bitcoins from hannah hart. which beard should you grow?. 19 essential cleaning hacks for the workout addict. rihanna poses with stuffed tigers. 30 punny valentines for everyone you love. 26 reasons you don’t need meat at your super bowl party. this chap made an incredibly detailed aeroplane replica from manila folders. 23 cute football snacks for your super bowl party. 31 gifs tão perfeitamente cíclicos que são fisicamente gratificantes. las 17 peores cosas que han pasado en la moda. a schoolboy gained 25,000 twitter followers by posing as a football journalist. 11 reasons your next trip should be to cinque terre. a religious group mixed up its texts so it looks like jesus doesn’t care. chuck aoki: top 10 struggles of being a summer paralympian in winter. thwaites brewery sign looks a bit different, since the firm announced redundancies. mitt romney slow jams the news with jimmy fallon. 18 signes que vous êtes difficile avec la nourriture. 16 signs you are so over winter. 13 reasons why the hyperloop is going to be the greatest transportation system ever. 31 unbelievable pieces of origami art. paul mccartney and ringo starr reunited at the grammys and it was adorable. girl talk won the grammys. 12 things katy perry looked like at the grammys. a lot of people were upset with this year’s hottest 100. lana del rey debuts "once upon a dream" cover in new trailer for "maleficent". 8 people madonna looked like at the grammys. the 13 most stunning red carpet looks at the grammys. lorde’s grammy performance proved her dancing continues to freak people out. the 36 absolute sexiest moments from beyoncé and jay z’s grammy performance. ciara has the most gorgeous pregnancy glow. lorde’s dip-dyed fingers were the best nail art performance of the grammys. taylor swift headbanged her heart out during her grammys performance. 11 celebrities who wanted to be the next supreme at the grammys. q&a: ezra klein promises “a completely different product”. the arby’s twitter account totally called out pharrell’s insane grammy’s hat and it was awesome. “macklemorgan freeman” is worse than anything you’ll see during the grammys. what it is like to have sex after a dry spell. tegan and sara texting during the grammys is sisterly love at its most hilarious. giving up shampoo changed my life. everyone at the grammys looked like your childhood toys. 21 people you’ll meet in every pub. 18 facts you probably don’t know about “the simpsons”. madonna on grammys performance: "i feel like history is being made tonight". pharrell’s hat is the most important thing at the grammys. wiz khalifa gives the perfect answer to a boring red-carpet question. is this a member of imagine dragons?. 23 formas en las se podría arruinar tu boda. 13 reason why iceland’s police force the best in the world. 11 dance moves to master before seeing britney in vegas. 8 traits that candy crush addicts have in common. kathy griffin celebrates her grammy win for best comedy album. reasons why ‘the tonight show with jimmy fallon’ is the best valentine’s day gift this february. fashion on the 2014 grammy awards red carpet. here are the winners at the 2014 grammy awards. 33 most embarrassing moments for every woman in her 20s. les pires scandales sexuels des présidents français. 11 problemas que as pessoas tinham nos anos 2000. what kevin hart’s box office success can teach other aspiring movie stars. a definitive ranking of all the times frodo got hurt. these guys went on “ellen” to sing their hilarious love song about her. macklemore has 1,053 unread text messages. jessie j at the clive davis pre-grammy gala. austin mahone at the clive davis pre-grammy gala. fantasia at the clive davis pre-grammy gala. shannon elizabeth at the clive davis pre-grammy gala. chrissy teigen at the clive davis pre-grammy gala. paula patton at the clive davis pre-grammy gala. kelis at the clive davis pre-grammy gala. miley cyrus at the clive davis pre-grammy gala. jennifer hudson at the clive davis pre-grammy gala. taylor swift at the clive davis pre-grammy gala. scheana marie at ok!’s pre-grammy event. farrah abraham at ok!’s pre-grammy event. adrienne bailon at ok!’s pre-grammy event. gretchen rossi at ok!’s pre-grammy event. jordin sparks at ok!’s pre-grammy event. tatyana ali at ok!’s pre-grammy event. christina milian at ok!’s pre-grammy event. joanna krupa at ok!’s pre-grammy event. ozzy and sharon osbourne are back on (at least according to their pda). michael b. jordan goes jet-skiing with a "mystery girl". este gato sin pelo parece una papa pelada. os 30 fatos mais alegres de todos os tempos. supersize vs superskinny: season 1 / episode 2 - “yasmin and darryl”. the shining meets mean girls. will the real dee ford please stand up?. 12 manicures for super bowl xlvii. michael cera and jonah hill reunite on "snl" for a parody of "her". 23 embarrassingly ironic complaints on twitter. 34 couples to marry at the grammys during macklemore’s "same love". 16 hotels that are so cool you’ll want to stay forever. why the parent trap is one of the best films of all time. the pope released two peace doves, which were promptly attacked by bigger birds. 18 cosas que pasan cuando te mudas mucho. 17 reasons to fill up on bread. 20 of the best movie and tv spoilers of all time. 33 fotos assustadoras de estrelas pornô com e sem maquiagem. the men of "full house" reunite in a new super bowl advertisement and it is everything. 21 reasons birthday cake is, and always will be, better than cupcakes. the definitive ranking of ’00s teen movies. the definitive ranking of soups. these diagrams are everything you need to plan your wedding. what it’s like to be a woman at the old boys economic forum. coca-cola’s new social media campaign won’t let you use the word "gay". 23 epic literary love tattoos. 21 things every traveler wishes they owned. this boy has no arms so he learned to play the trumpet with his toes. 20 coisas que as lésbicas estão cansadas de ouvir. dale un vistazo a estos hermanos que recrean fotos de su niñez. these gifs of birds in motion are the best thing. stanislas warwinka wins australian open. 38 breathtaking pictures from the early days of the london underground. the 26 most australian things that have ever happened. 32 massive pictures of the world’s biggest aircraft. leonardo dicaprio crashes jonah hill’s “snl” monologue, re-creates “titanic”. what you may have missed during kendrick’s grammys performance. 10 pictures proving cupcakes and muffins are frenemies. les 16 effets secondaires d’un job chiant. the new york times called pizza “meh”. 33 photo booth photos every mac user has taken. meet the man who got inside snapchat’s head. the 10 most jaw-dropping comments from an out-of-touch millionaire’s bloomberg tv interview. this high school senior asked her boyfriend to winter formal in the most adorable way. how net neutrality lost the tech giants. this might be the best dad joke ever. crest to sell chocolate toothpaste. 16 reasons lord voldemort is a great role model. 21 reasons why peggy hill is an inspiration to womankind. 20 striking portraits created through a unique father-son collaboration. los angeles times uncovers extremely patronizing handbook for raiders cheerleaders. is macklemore a 9/11 truther?. indiana’s proposed constitutional marriage ban hits major roadblock. stop everything and watch this 2-year-old skateboarding genius. venture capitalist’s tv interview over controversial nazi remarks goes off the rails. officer who shot young black man after he was in car accident will be indicted after all. these animals playing in the snow will melt your polar vortexed heart. the 15 worst types of people at every super bowl party. 14 weird vintage beauty ads. 10 things you shouldn’t say to a recovering alcoholic. the "jurassic park" velociraptor cage is for sale. the most disturbing teacher confessions. clinton spokesman says she used facebook, bought something online last wednesday. watch the breathtaking photoshop transformation of this singer during her own music video. iraqi opposition leader hires washington lobbyist. how “girls” tackled the messy, selfish grieving process. 9 celebrity tweets you missed today. twenty songs to heat you up during winter storm leon. top 5 frank turner songs. 23 invaluable life lessons you learned from jim henson. the official "vampire academy" poster will get your blood pumping. send this video to every woman in your life because they’re all beautiful. this dog is throwing so much shade at his family. the curious case of amber rose and her disappearing tattoos. 17 ways us brits can’t cope with bad weather. 28 problems only ridiculously good-looking people have. 21 times justin timberlake wore some very cringeworthy fashions. drug dealers unfazed by legal pot in colorado. was miley cyrus the richard sherman of 2013?. 11 things you should never say to people with curly hair lead the daily links. this guy surprised his fianceé by restoring her childhood teddy bear and the reaction is incredible. 3 things that could negatively impact the u.s. economy this year. how to eat at a hipster restaurant. 17 times quinn morgendorffer was the smartest person on "daria". wall street says apple isn’t selling enough iphones. 16 razones por las cuales nunca deberías recrear fotos que ves en pinterest. 26 things that happen when you move to los angeles. these behind the scenes photos from "orange is the new black" will make you anxious for its return. 13 weeds you can eat without dying. drake and romeo santos release new song that proves bachata has gone mainstream. how well do you actually remember elementary school grammar?. why you should never go to space. an ex-marlboro man died from a smoking related disease. here’s everything we know about the first gay couple featured on the disney channel. a definitive ranking of the top 20 disney villains. this parody twitter account uses dark humor to mock rural india’s regressive justice system. sir mix-a-lot and cnn’s jake tapper talked about butts and honesty on twitter and it was awesome. 9 brain farts you know too well. the shocking connection between movies released in january. a study in disney deaths. 29 señales de que te criaron hippies. 29 gatos que se esqueceram de como ser gatos. nypd investigating attack of gay journalist as possible hate crime. how much of an asshole are you?. listen to charlamagne da god tell a story about rihanna partying. 16 common surnames with awesome secret meanings. resolutions we’ve already broken. here’s what texts from a homophobic parent look like. arguments set for thursday in case challenging virginia marriage ban. in case you were wondering, this is what the guys from daft punk look like without their helmets. 20 people who desperately need your love. 22 reasons you should be in chile right now. 19 things only new yorkers are weird enough to do. white house press secretary laughs about nsa taking angry birds data. why baking with cats is impossible, in one photo. a dreamer won a grammy last night. sisi set to become egypt’s next president, but can he live up to the hype?. 42 ridiculous out-of-context panels from anime and manga. 9 unexpectedly awesome musical moments to come from tv. 9 ridiculously expensive celebrity wedding registry gifts. 21 stars who skipped the grammys and went straight to the grammy after-parties. cantante húngara hace un impactante video musical en el que muestra los retoques digitales que le hacen mientras canta. 39 absolutely perfect comic sans valentine’s day cards. 22 motivos por los que deberías estar en chile en este momento. 21 things only people with no butt whatsoever understand. macklemore sent kendrick lamar the humblebraggiest apology text ever written. everything you need to know about pixar in two minutes. one of the financial industry’s harshest critics joins board of spain’s biggest bank. this is what happens when a cat video chats with his human. this 1970s news report on the dangers of platform shoes is hilarious. how will you die?. macklemore’s awesomely awkward teenage photo. i watched the new mitt romney documentary with my wife and it was a huge mistake. 21 trucos ingeniosos para que cualquier boda sea mucho más fácil. as 32 piores coisas de ser alto. david cross takes aim at self-absorbed social media. grand jury will reconsider case against cop charged with killing unarmed college football player. peter capaldi’s "doctor who" ensemble is revealed!. why you need to stop everything you’re doing and listen to kacey musgraves. 21 celebrity instagrams from the grammys that you need to see. ukip’s godfrey bloom mocks disabled student in debate. girl, get your life together!. historically accurate disney princesses and villainess. what the afl-cio president wants out of the state of the union. what 9 disney princesses would look like as guys. the 19 most magical photos from the grammys. every reason you can’t stand espn in one image. as 32  melhores “selfies” de todos os tempos. 30 cosas a evitar antes de los 30. 15 springtime reminders to get you through this miserable winter. ugandan president calls for scientific proof that homosexuality is not genetic. pharrell’s hat is totally the chapeau from "the little prince". relaxing gifs compilation. 19 hilariously dull british postcards. 10 reasons why time-lapse movies deserve the vince lombardi trophy. 29 reasons you wish mindy lahiri was your big sister. hillary clinton hasn’t driven a car since 1996. al roker doesn’t have time for that. the abcs of beyoncé. the internet reacts to queen latifah officiating weddings during the grammys. 4 major reasons why people are protesting in ukraine. 25 behind-the-scenes photos you missed from the grammys. 35 motivos para ter filhos. 11 datos que todos debemos saber sobre las orcas en cautiverio. someone tweeted a picture of harry styles’ bare butt and then sir mix-a-lot got involved. 5 reasons you shouldn’t get mad about macklemore winning so many grammys. and now for tom hiddleston as loki in captain america’s suit. the official ranking of famous people dancing in the grammys audience. 15 animals who are terrible hiders but don’t tell them cuz they’re so cute about it. for everyone who doesn’t gaf about pharrell’s hat because he is gorgeous with or without it. the new yorker cover with a figure skating vladimir putin is pretty much perfect. britney spears has the biggest las vegas residency of the year. how "chronic fatigue syndrome" obscures a serious illness. sad keanu doll is the perfect valentine’s gift for lonely singles. 23 coisas que podem arruinar o seu casamento. las 19 etapas del embarazo desde la perspectiva de un hombre. 23 kids you meet as a parent. close calls in literary history: 10 writers’ brushes with death. shiba inu komugi: snack time.. a man with cancer left his daughter touching life advice on hundreds of napkins. 10 essential books about the holocaust that you didn’t read in class. 10 valentine’s day diys for your favorite people. europe’s last sodomy law repealed. meryl streep, 50 cent and kobe bryant are a totally random but lovely trio. what’s the one cell phone app everyone should have?. 26 lies boyfriends tell their girlfriends. 20 absolutely awesome electronics from the ’80s. veja só estes dois irmãos recriando fotos de sua infância. ¿cómo se verían las celebridades si no hubiesen sido famosas?. 9 opportunities you can take on super bowl sunday. 16 geeky valentine’s day cards. there is a "sherlock"-themed café in shanghai. 6 people taylor swift looked like at the grammys. abandoned german care home is the eeriest thing you’ll see today. 19 reasons the grammys were just the jay z and beyoncé show. american woman moves to india to become rural housewife. 19 names for oddly specific phobias. 9 properties in britain you can buy for £10,000 or less. 24 utterly bizarre japanese ice cream flavours. nando’s reacts to adnan januzaj’s date night. 12 things i learned at a beyoncé dance class. channel 4’s “the jump” is the most awesomely underwhelming show on tv. 16 awful valentine’s day gift ideas. this new zealander stitched his own leg together after a shark attack. 16 social theories and relationship rules from "how i met your mother". inside the syrian opposition’s media war. clinton supporters want iowa to want her. 11 extraordinarily racy works of vintage erotica. nigel farage presents spoof ukip weather report. 16 signs you are a human being. 23 people tackling a muddy assault course who will make your monday seem bearable. 21 truths about the job hunt. artist imagines what disney princesses would look like if they were disabled. 25 reasons drinking when you’re underage is the worst. 10 reasons why you need to watch “house of lies”. 15 perfectly pleasing symmetrical breakfasts. you can buy the actual velociraptor cage from the opening of "jurassic park" on ebay. 16 eye-popping examples of alleged corruption at the sochi olympics. 14 reasons your new year’s resolution diet never sticks. after being denied a snow day, university of illinois students respond with racism and sexism. 10 dogs loving cupcakes. the 34 best moments from this year’s grammys. 25 boy band songs to help get you through the day. 34 couples got married during macklemore and ryan lewis’ grammys performance. 12 things more likely to kill you than a shark. 7 things sherlock holmes does better than your boyfriend. 33 things pharrell is hiding under his hat. taylor swiftly recovers after getting prematurely excited about the award she definitely didn’t win. beyoncé’s 10 best awards show performances. obama’s failure to mention lgbt workers’ bill angers advocates. new york gop congressman caught on tape threatening reporter. john boehner throws the best shade. mailman battles angry cat while attempting to deliver mail. 14 hôtels extraordinaires où vous voudrez vous installer pour toujours. cnn panelist: “a speech by barack obama is a lot like sex”. war hero cory remsburg gets standing ovation at state of the union. obama wants this to be year we close guantanamo bay. 22 signs you’re the shoshanna of your friend group. obama to congress: i’ll take action myself when i can. state of the union pantone gradient map.. obama comment on "fixing" a "broken health care system" draws laughs at state of the union. 22 coisas que voce tem a oportunidade de fazer e/ou ver na campus party. obama warns of future: "climate change is fact". a sweet bed time story. obama knocks republicans for government shutdown, says it hinders basic democracy. this report about slavery and child labor in india’s handmade carpet industry will horrify you. “duck dynasty” star attends the state of the union. 21 truly insane stories behind your favorite foods. 21 wicked disney valentine’s day cards from your favorite villains. 4 things you don’t expect to find in a public bathroom. gop congressman tweets about “socialist dictator” obama ahead of state of the union. if you doubt macklemore’s sincerity, listen to his songs about addiction. 10 things that happen when you read harry potter for the first time as an adult. things that are trendy now but that we’ll regret in the future. 17 improvised toys that prove kids can have fun with anything. 18 sexual celebrity arms. 22 struggles all curvy girls know to be true. heartbreaking new video of avonté oquendo leaving school has been released. 9 times the beatles proved they were cheeky. frustrated dreamers, advocates don’t expect much from obama on immigration ahead of state of the union. top 20 cult classic lifetime movies. 15 reasons you want rae earl to be your best friend. 7 steps to becoming the alpha cat!. 6 foods you’re eating wrong. this heartbreaking video shows the aftermath of suicide on a farmer’s family. watch a bunch of guys try to guess how much bras cost. why hasn’t obama acted on lgbt workers’ protections?. smart guy is now a smart man. “stuff my guinea pig” needs to do. 29 secret anxieties of girls with natural hair. if fiction didn’t exist in this world. the letter this state trooper wrote after putting his k-9 partner to sleep will break your heart. 26 epic yawns. the enormous top hat trend of the ’90s was incredibly bad. if rappers were members of the white house cabinet leads the daily links. 20 of the junkiest books about drugs you’ll ever read. guy tries to attack jim cantore during live shot, immediately regrets it. 15 vintage photos of pete seeger, bob dylan, and other folk legends from the ’60s and ’70s. 29 gospels from the mouth of daniel radcliffe. colorado congressman offers fried bull testicles in super bowl wager. 50 personas que te gustaría conocer en la vida real. 12 signs that you’re addicted to buzzfeed. ranking all of taylor swift’s songs. the 10 best anagrams of ‘super bowl’. jaleel white’s website will put you in the mood. how to make a sundance hit on your very first try. big game snacks that are works of art. 20 coisas constrangedoras que acontecem quando você vai morar com alguém. 95 x-men members ranked from worst to best. yahoo burned through $1 billion in cash last year. cyndi lauper at the 56th grammy awards at the staples center in los angeles. 26 decisions that are incredibly difficult for third culture kids. rita ora at the 56th grammy awards at the staples center in los angeles. 28 de las peores caídas de niños en la historia. 19 totally forgotten celebrity couples of the ’00s. 26 reasons why joey represents every post-secondary student. chrissy teigen at the 56th grammy awards at the staples center in los angeles. 21 reasons why old people are the best people on the internet. 27 ways britney spears’ career could have been totally different. 21 reasons karl stefanovic is the greatest australian journalist of all time. kacey musgraves at the 56th grammy awards at the staples center in los angeles. why pitbull is actually great and we should all love him. bonnie mckee at the 56th grammy awards at the staples center in los angeles. game day recipes for people who like to cook. will kleiner perkins drop the “perkins” from its name?. skyler grey at the 56th grammy awards at the staples center in los angeles. iggy azalea at the 56th grammy awards at the staples center in los angeles. winklevoss twins warn of restrictive regulation one day after bitcoin startup founder’s arrest. it was a yo-yo week for dietary supplement company herbalife. ciara at the 56th grammy awards at the staples center in los angeles. santo deus, o filho do clint eastwood é muito gato. 17 signs you’re in a relationship with a burrito. the 18 stages of flappy bird addiction. los 35 momentos más felices de la historia animal. madonna at the 56th grammy awards at the staples center in los angeles. katy perry at the 56th grammy awards at the staples center in los angeles. 26 signs you were a business major. paris hilton at the 56th grammy awards at the staples center in los angeles. officer-involved shooting at high school in hawaii. anna kendrick at the 56th grammy awards at the staples center in los angeles. taylor swift at the 56th grammy awards at the staples center in los angeles. sara bareilles at the 56th grammy awards at the staples center in los angeles. colbie caillat at the 56th grammy awards at the staples center in los angeles. indiana house approves proposed constitutional marriage ban. what’s the name of your soulmate?. tom hiddleston originally auditioned to play thor and the photos will change your life. miley cyrus at the 56th annual grammy gala in beverly hills. are you a huge jerk on twitter?. 20 verra verra braw reasons why sam heughan is the perfect jamie fraser. definitive proof that all art should be cat art. 26 winter storm name suggestions for the weather channel. 23 ways long-distance bffs survive. 17 animais que nem sabem o que aconteceu com eles. 14 dos and don’ts of throwing a bachelor party. the browser extension that could save the internet. an inspiring friendship between a golden retriever and a kitten. 22 reasons having a brother seems awesome. 28 que están teniendo un día peor que el tuyo. what time does the 2014 super bowl start??. sign deport justin bieber and revoke his green card petition. 13 times that xkcd got way too real with us. return of the kung fu dragon (1976). which barack obama are you?. super bowl-worthy commercials to hold you over until february 2nd. most heartbreaking little kitten cries ever!. why i should be the next diy intern.. 35 frustrating things about playing video games in the ’90s. 21 totally adorable homemade valentines to make with kids. 33 ways that mark ruffalo’s character in "13 going on 30" ruined men for you. this artist’s cute little creations will bring a smile to your face today. heartbreaking avonté oquendo illustration imagines him as an angel. 27 struggles that only people with big butts will understand. 19 motivos pelos quais não vale a pena mesmo casar. the world’s strictest parents - alabama, usa. a teacher in iran went viral after shaving his head to stand up for a student bullied for being bald. 20 cosas incómodas que suceden cuando te mudas con tu pareja. 12 times “family matters” was the weirdest show on tv. conner mertens of diii willamette university becomes the first active college football player to come out. woman who was arrested after reporting her rape is suing the police officer for false imprisonment. northwestern university football players are attempting to unionize. how game culture fosters the wrong kind of safe space. what kind of internet addict are you?. freezing weather hitting the south and midwest this week. 19 ways steve urkel inspired you as a kid. oliver takes roy under his wing in this exclusive “arrow” sneak peek. the government’s war on red tape will only scrap 100 regulations. os 33 animais mais fofoluchos do planeta. the definitive rankings of gps systems. definitive proof that little girls are better at designing superhero costumes than you. 15 greatest disney cats. 13 razones por las que los chicos buenos son los peores. my crazy ex…best friend. this video explains why girls love the super bowl. 15 stories that will restore your faith in the next generation. ellen degeneres responds perfectly when pink calls her out on a mistake. don’t you dare call this dog “butkus”. what’s your butt’s horoscope?. 14 tips for preparing for your first magic: the gathering tournament. omg look little baby pigs!. 5 of the most dramatic sweet valley high book covers. out lesbian responds to father’s $130 million offer for any man willing to marry her. how to build a super bowl snack stadium. gabby giffords: “congress is afraid of the gun lobby”. 13 sinais de que você é viciado em sorvete de iogurte. redskins coach says “stats are for losers,” which is funny because stats show he does a lot of losing. 21 badass gifs to get you amped for slopestyle at the sochi olympics. how your soul lives on outside of your body. 8 hot celeb food-holes that make you question the sanity of kissing. a definitive ranking of places to snorgle a cat, from worst to yummiest. the pr for an “anonymity” app just leaked the email address of every tech journalist in london. anna kendrick fangirling over beyoncé is all of us fangirling over beyoncé. apparently people have been trying to eat bananas through pantyhose on youtube. 17 valentine’s day meme cards. beyoncé and jay z show how sexy christian marriage can be. justin bieber wears trash bag shorts on the beach. here’s every loose end that was finally wrapped up in the 200th episode of “how i met your mother”. 10 wonderful weed stuff that’s not a psychedelic nightmare. lana del rey’s cover for “maleficent”. las 50 cosas más lindas que han pasado. 17 terrible puns to brighten your day. empire magazine are preparing for the new x-men film in the coolest way possible.. this is how british people describe the super bowl. stop what you’re doing and watch vin diesel dancing to “drunk in love”. como as celebridades se pareceriam se não tivessem ficado famosas?. 21 cosas que todo viajero desearía tener. which newspaper are you?. did balzac really drink 50 cups of coffee a day?. how well does “the apprentice“‘s nick hewer know the internet?. book trailer: o, democracy! by kathleen rooney. abercrombie adds directors, making strides toward replacing ceo mike jeffries. cara delevingne and michelle rodriguez try out a new hangover cure. student activist launches line of consent-themed underwear to get people talking about sex. finally, a computer game about that oregon methhead who fought police for his right to masturbate in public. pope francis takes over the cover of the latest rolling stone. 17 animals saying ha-ay. top 10 saddest things to do in nyc. 9 stunning architectural images: rendering or reality?. 9 legendary athletes & olympians with law degrees. former politico andrei cherny teases new financial company with “1984” homage. cbs says it didn’t avoid kiss shots during grammys. 21 coisas que todo viajante gostaria de ter. este niño no tiene brazos, así que aprendió a tocar la trompeta con los pies. 21 unexpected side effects of being in a relationship. creme egg donuts are real and you can make them. 15 reasons veronica mars is the most anticipated movie of 2014. the 24 most delightful vines of 2014 so far. 44 amazing places you wish you could nap right now. which tv character do you want to get drunk with?. 21 celebrity bffs you wish you could be. legendary folk songwriter and activist pete seeger dies at 94. all 25 “x-men: days of future past” covers from empire magazine. stop what you are doing and watch this disturbing video of vin diesel dancing. there’s a ticket barrier on the london underground that can sing along to blur. demetri marchessini’s guide to things that don’t exist. tell us about yourself(ie): beth stern. is anyone even paying attention to the state of the union?. 13 gothic love songs. what college city should you live in?. watch scarlett johansson’s banned super bowl ad. 11 stamps for your diy wedding invitations. how to fail university on £107.33 a month. 19 ways shoshanna from “girls” is an inspiration. the world’s strictest parents - barbados. peter capaldi rocks his new "doctor who" costume on set in first live action shots. 19 genuinely funny ways to tell the world you’re having a baby. the 15 most disgusting foods from your childhood. if newspaper headlines were scientifically accurate. former ukip donor prints open letter declaring “there is no such word as homophobic”. indian supreme court refuses to reconsider sodomy ban. timelapse footage shows incredible eruption of the sinabung volcano. 17 things the over-forties believe about the under-thirties. 22 stunning aerial photos that reveal a beauty from above. the autocomplete map of the united kingdom. 90 cows exploded a barn in germany with their farts. 10 fictional characters that need to be on american horror story: coven. the "sherlock" guide to the u.k.. here’s a handy undo feature you didn’t know your iphone had. the 15 nicknames of kenneth the page. 24 ways to tell you don’t understand work-life balance. “the bachelor” gif recap week 4: seoul sisters. this is why britain’s world indoor bowls championship is better than the super bowl. this artist turns books into sculptures and the results are incredible. 23 reasons nothing in this world is more disgusting than fish. ukrainian prime minister resigns, parliament overturns “dictatorship laws”. the 10 type people at a super bowl party!. names options for your pet based on the harry potter series. 15 signs of a loser boyfriend!. 17 preuves que vous buvez trop de vin. watch one little dachshund help his owner come out of the closet. some republicans see racism as a factor in immigration stalemate. the top 20 signs you’ve got a case of “maction”. a definitive ranking of the top 10 best movies judd apatow has produced.. 7 ways the abc could be more on australia’s side. msnbc tweets about the “rightwing” hating an ad because it features a biracial family. a female indian politician said rape can happen because of a woman’s clothes and behavior. siri helps buy mom a birthday present. 11 secrets pilots don’t want you to know. 25 times spongebob was relevant. the typical timeline of taking a trip. americans taste test australian snack foods. justin trudeau removes senators from liberal caucus. jimmy kimmel asked people how the state of the union was even though it hadn’t happened yet. 18 signs your mate may be a wog. anna kendrick’s new super bowl commercial is freaking hilarious. is anna kendrick “beer commercial hot”?. 17 reasons why everyone should envy jessie james’ life. which “dream phone” boy is your soulmate?. 22 reasons why everyone should love the wwe’s daniel bryan. 7 surprising and noteworthy artists that performed at the peach pit after dark. are you addicted to porn?. hilarious proof that snapchat can turn anyone into a disney princess. 18 reasons you should date a vegetarian. 32 reasons myrtle snow should actually be the next supreme. 15 times ke$ha taught us how to be a queen. media reporting’s blind spot. a.j. mccarron came to new york for an axe-brand haircut and talked about twitter, demonry, and his mom. a behind-the-scenes look at super bowl media day. how adidas seeks to make teens feel famous and cool. 23 reasons annie was the cooler twin in "the parent trap". 11 brilliant ways to spend valentine’s day if you’re single. 20 places you’d rather be than in the office. 25 ways to know you live in the queen city. 26 times "one tree hill" kept you up at night. can you make it through this video without laughing?. which ’80s pop hit are you?. which harry potter character are you?. kevin and danielle jonas put their house up on airbnb. 21 celebs you just know you’d be bffs with. seattle vs. denver: which city is better?. 8 celebrity tweets you missed today. 17 dogs who know all about the friend zone. which 2014 best picture nominee are you?. justin bieber arrested in toronto. should you order seamless tonight?. 27 men who were defeated by shopping. jack nicholson has duck face syndrome. 28 reasons john elway was, is, and always will be a badass. cheerios brought back their adorable interracial family for their super bowl comercial. ben zank is messing with my mind. this 92-year-old trans wwii veteran is fighting to be treated like any other widow. 10 ways to kick your shoe addiction lead the daily links. this was the phrase that broke through at the state of the union. pets and their celebrity owners. what kind of dog are you?. rihanna at the mac cosmetics launch of viva glam rihanna in new york city. why sex is going to be ridiculously awesome in the future. youtube secrets you need to see. diane kruger at the hollywood stands up to cancer event in culver city, california. jessica alba at the hollywood stands up to cancer event in culver city, california. selena gomez at the hollywood stands up to cancer event in culver city, california. 22 movies that will make you happy to be single. anna kendrick at the hollywood stands up to cancer event in culver city, california. christina aguilera at the hollywood stands up to cancer event in culver city, california. heidi klum at the hollywood stands up to cancer event in culver city, california. seahawks receiver harvin: i tried to make concussion decision myself in saints game. reese witherspoon at the hollywood stands up to cancer event in culver city, california. this cat completely understands how you feel about the weather. 25 trucos para hacerle espacio a un bebé en tu pequeño hogar. emma roberts runs errands in west hollywood. you can buy a “friendzone eliminator kit” on etsy. cameron diaz at the tag heuer flagship store opening in new york city. rosario dawson at the lambertz monday night in germany. carmen electra at the lambertz monday night in germany. ashley tisdale at “that awkward moment” premiere in l.a.. camilla alves at the premiere of ‘dallas buyers club’ in rome, italy. imogen poots at “that awkward moment” premiere in l.a.. the 19 types of people you see at the office. facebook is now a very profitable mobile advertising company. this fake red hot chili peppers song is better than any real red hot chili peppers song. this wild video of a car crash in the snow is not from atlanta. russia’s only independent news channel faces closure under kremlin pressure. republican senator doesn’t want marijuana to be legalized because lady gaga is "addicted to it". this one-minute budweiser super bowl ad will reduce you to a puddle of tears. 17 times winston churchill proved he’s the prime minister of burns. this vintage vibrator ad doesn’t know what a vibrator is for. what kind of poop are you going to have?. ski ballet is the forgotten olympic sport you need in your life. 9 signs you’re totally dating a cougar. future remixes beyoncé’s “drunk in love” and it is great but where is ciara??. as 22 coisas que apenas pessoas com toc irão entender. tomémonos un minuto para apreciar a nuestros perros. 14 ways dumbledore was the sassiest wizard of all time. the 26 craziest crimes that involve taco bell. 40 unconventional diy valentine’s day cards. “vampire academy” stars zoey deutch and lucy fry are best friends and it’s adorable. top weird adventure time fan art. man pleads guilty to mislabeling piranhas. 30 inspirational bible verse tattoos. iranian group’s american supporters favor new sanctions, slam nuclear deal. these slowed-down commercials make everyone sound really stoned. democratic senator who campaigned with obama in 2008 won’t say if he will again in 2014. 15 alleged juicy secrets about your favorite reality shows. behind the scenes things you did not see watching the state of the union. white house says it will respond to petition to have justin bieber deported. the return of gaming’s greatest storyteller. as 25 vezes em que joey e chandler venceram na amizade.. 20 juguetes falsificados, pero divertidísimos y ridículos. you know you’re bored at work when…. “banana for scale” is a pretty adorable trend on reddit. 25 times cartoons were in love with pizza. which avenger are you?. jaden smith valentines, based on actual jaden smith tweets. 8 accurate comics about the anxiety of writers. 22 reasons why everyone loves the sunflower state. which kind of insane florida news story best fits your personality?. 25 brand slogans that are way more accurate. what happened to the new internet?. leonardo dicaprio was a total embarrassing dad at the tokyo premiere of "wolf of wall street". 16 cute guys and their spirit animals. 8 problems only dogs understand. there is almost nothing charlie crist hasn’t flip-flopped on. 17 razões para se empanturrar de pão. 19 cosas que probablemente no sepas acerca de “mujer bonita”. 17 viejas publicidades que nadie disfrutaría hoy en día. 24 foods you hated as a kid but love now. atlanta is basically an episode of “the walking dead” right now. jimmy kimmel puts “bachelor” sean lowe and his bride under a lie detector test. 21 things you don’t get about young people if you were born before 1980. which gay best friend are you?. proof that neil gaiman’s fans are actually the best. 17 marijuana snacks to eat during the stoner bowl. how to make butter with medical marijuana. 21 reasons you should de-friend your parents. how to make weed chili that will get you stoned. how to make weed blue cheese dip that will get you stoned. 10 incredible internet easter eggs. this is what "the shining" twins look like now. how to make weed hot wings that will get you stoned. this illustration shows what people thought a woman’s orgasm looked like in 1949. how to make weed popcorn that will get you stoned. feds to decide by friday whether to seek death penalty for boston bombing suspect. how to make weed guacamole that will get you stoned. how to make pot brownies and get mega stoned. 21 stages of having a shoe addiction. the official ‘the fault in our stars’ trailer is here and it’s everything you were hoping for. 21 things introverts are tired of hearing. if you really moved to an "animal crossing" town. este menino não tem os braços, então ele aprendeu a tocar o trompete com os dedos dos pés. como saber si él es un potencial novio o no. 46 communes françaises au nom complètement absurde. start crying, because the official trailer for "the fault in our stars" is finally here. tumblr’s updated terms of service possess an alien beauty. you can watch a live event or tweet about it but not both. the boy who sees without eyes - documentary. unexpectedly stealthy elephant photobombs oblivious photographers. 33 mouthwatering ways to make focaccia. disney’s evil ladies. incredible images of atlanta essentially shutting down after 2 inches of snow. how to get arrested in egypt: work as a journalist. herman cain: "ten-ten is no nine-nine-nine". world’s tallest woman undergoes life saving surgery. 25 motivos pelos quais beber quando você é menor de idade é a pior coisa do mundo. 19 habilidades básicas que deberían enseñar en la escuela. 21 times the oscars screwed up since jennifer lawrence was born. 17 reasons mr. darcy isn’t actually that great. hamilton the hipster cat is already over the burrito vending machine. why trinity mirror closed people.co.uk. 13 signs pregnancy has turned you into an 80-year-old man. black balloon publishing’s top 10 favorite literary blogs. new york gop congressman apologizes to reporter he threatened to “break in half”. valentines decor you can enjoy all year. sliced ham products recalled for listeria monocytogenes risk. 21 coisas que só gente sem bunda entende. lorde thanks her fans with a newspaper ad. 19 startling photos of the snow in florida. nypd make arrest in attack of gay journalist. 23 tatuajes épicos de amor literario. watch these adorably dramatic hamsters fake their own deaths. these are funniest impressions of dying star wars characters ever. por si te lo estabas preguntando, así es como se ven los chicos de daft punk sin sus cascos. girl has cutest response ever to being trapped in the atlanta snowstorm. 20 things every woman understands but doesn’t want to talk about. how alicia florrick brings men to their knees. 19 truques essenciais de limpeza para os viciados em malhação. 19 trucos de limpieza esenciales para los adictos al ejercicio. movies you should never watch with your parents. the 25 most beautifully illustrated wedding invites. 15 reasons why you fell in love with chandler bing. rihanna photobombs the "full house" guys. jimmy fallon passes the late night pickle to seth meyers. tom hiddleston, ben kingsley and mark strong combine for ultimate brit villains advert. literary valentines for the romantic reader in all of us. 12 quotes that prove mike huckabee is insane. se você estava imaginando, isso é como os caras do daft punk se parecem sem os seus capacetes.. 21 cosas que sólo la gente que no tiene nada de trasero entiende. 9 things joe biden did at the state of the union that were more interesting than obama’s speech. 16 things exploding in slow motion. there’s a thing called a shipping dogecast and it is so very odd. online love story of two tails. this elephant drew a self portrait. where in the u.k. should you actually live?. 25 people who are really confused as to why grant shapps follows them on twitter. biden and boehner’s fierce sotu face off. 10 ways bacon is already the winner of 2014. ranking the beards, scruff, and mustaches on "looking". 21 fantastic oprah winfrey outfits from her early career. try not laugh at the saddest dog in the world. 18 revelations from george clooney’s reddit ama. which member of one direction should you marry?. putting googly eyes on heavy metal albums makes them a lot less scary. what your celebrity friend crush actually says about you. 32 reasons why lena dunham is absolutely brilliant. classic coen brothers movies reimagined as gig posters. supersize vs superskinny: amy-jo and andy. now you can calculate exactly how much of your life you’ve wasted on facebook. 21 powerful portraits of afghan refugee children. shetland’s “up helly aa” fire festival looks like the best festival on earth. watch taylor swift get kicked in the face by ryu from "street fighter". 17 harrowing sketches of britpop stars suffering everyday problems. read extraordinary essays by children describing world war i zeppelin attacks. uk magazine apologises for copying boston magazine’s poignant bombing tribute front cover. 7 real news sotu headlines that sound like buzzfeeds. abandoned dog with wonky legs saved by generous animal lovers. what its like being single during wedding season. the twins who share a body - documentary. how to be awesome according to christine campbell. ugandan president wants to prove homosexuality with science!. republicans scramble to get on tv after state of the union. mixed reviews from both parties for obama’s state of the union foreign policy. cutest puppy feature: shetland sheepdogs. dueling protests over marriage held at utah state capitol. twin sisters separated at birth were brought back together by a youtube video. thousands of students stranded at schools as snowstorm paralyzes the south. this vine will change your life. 51 pictures of summer across america to help you feel warm. 10 valentine’s day treats you’re definitely going to want to make. inside miley and madonna’s “mtv unplugged” duet. 26 signs you have travelled around south america. 20 animaux qui se comportent comme des connards. world’s greatest head massage?. ranking the 13 most important celeb ponytails of the ’90s. ke$ha enters rehab to treat an eating disorder. the 15 best parts of being single in your thirties. 6 awesome reasons why you should you live in turkey. 15 people who are way worse at interior decorating than you. the midwest is about to face the coldest arctic outbreak in decades. what ’90s girls never realized about "a little princess". dozens dead as al qaeda rebels capture key cities in western iraq. 10 steps to protect the hacked snapchat of your lil’ angel. 13 times jazz got thrown out on “the fresh prince of bel air”. this picture of joe jonas, bald and with a cat shows a wonderful future for the star. the 15 most memorable television proposals. 14 reasons why tom haverford is a marketing and public relations guru. the first official “veronica mars” movie trailer is everything you dreamed it would be. are you a psychopath?. pastor andrew hamblin would rather die or go to jail than give up handling snakes. 16 reasons you should be rooting for the seattle seahawks to win the super bowl. 18 celebrity instagrams you need to see this week. 22 signs you’ve grown too comfortable with your internet addiction. 11 things every traveler should know when traveling to a foreign country. nintendo 64 vs. xbox one. house still divided on unemployment benefits extension. come on take me over - free music. 15 las vegas hacks to help you survive sin city. not here to make friends. the “downton abbey” edition of clue leads the daily links. why fangirls have the most productive snow days. the 40 dumbest things drunk men have ever done. 39 reasons to be happy every day for 100 days. syrian rebels wage new battle against al-qaeda affiliate. 22 artistas que precisam lançar um novo álbum em 2014. 30 mouthwatering american burgers to die for. 17 names that are impossible for babies to have. 21 estupideces que otros padres hacen. alabama fan freaks out, attacks ou students with flying fists of fury during bowl game. justice department squares off against nuns in supreme court challenge over birth control exemption. a life without pain - documentary. the chrome extension that bans the word "millennials". 10 halls of fame that somebody should establish. 19 pups who know how a snow day is done. 10 years roving the red planet. the silver lining for fans of every nfl team that didn’t make the playoffs. 25 photos of james marsden that will help you get through this blizzard. this may be the first kick of the 2014 fifa world cup. 7 things that make san francisco one of the most awesome cities ever. the 21 stages of going back to work. 22 of the best extreme selfies. season 4 of “downton abbey” is a bit of a downer. nfl player torrey smith denies being homophobic after using slur on instagram. president obama wants to expand gun buyer background checks on the mentally ill. 23 animals who are tired of this snow day already. eric bana: dilf on a beach. a man has been having a hilariously close friendship with applebee’s facebook page for months now. 8 reasons why working from home is the worst. how do animals sound in other languages?. is it just me or has no one noticed the background ppl behind jennifer lawrence in this gif?. 7 questions mtv’s “girl code” had about lesbians. 22 powerful images by dreamers: a window into life as an undocumented immigrant in america. 24 invaluable skills to learn for free online this year. this guy is turning himself into a real live gap mannequin. quiz: which disney prince is your true love?. 19 reasons rapunzel and flynn rider are the best disney couple. read your way to an awesome 2014. the documentary “blackfish” is causing more major problems for seaworld. 21 babaquices que outros pais costumam fazer. expert ways to deal with sexts. 22 artistas que necesitan lanzar un nuevo álbum en el 2014. 7 snow and ice houses you’ve got to see to believe. 10 usuários do instagram para seguir e aprender. here’s how to be fierce on a snow day. 32 signs you grew up in south-west wales. chris kluwe’s former teammate defends minnesota vikings coach, organization. the heartwarming story of cher ami, the pigeon who saved 200 american soldiers. revisiting resolutions, 10 years later. bernie sanders wants to know if the nsa is spying on congress. celebrity real estate: katy perry, reese witherspoon & leonardo dicaprio. how well 11 startups justify their worth. fact: dylan mcdermott is the hottest 52-year-old currently living. 42 bear gifs that will give you life in 2014. 38 stunning photos to get you excited about snow. vladimir putin’s snow day is better than yours. listen to the adorable voicemail pope francis left for some nuns. the very weird handwriting of very famous authors. a video ode to kimye’s love. 19 signs you are really impatient. things you do drunk that’d be creepy if you did them sober. 11 great bookstore names and how they got them. 19 conversation tips for the awkward. hercules may cost retailers upwards of $245 million in lost sales. 29 photos of the cast of “downton abbey” being totally un-downton-like. bill de blasio gives a little strip tease during winter storm press conference. here’s adam scott talking at length about pooping your pants. 20 bold, insane sports predictions for 2014. tv confidential archives: show no. 214 with guests lenny venito and simon templeman. sorry, not sorry. to thine own self be (sometimes) true. does twitter know ezra klein’s next move?. whose line is it anyway? a quiz on quotes from famous books. your mental sorbet: garth brooks - allentown / goodnight saigon - kennedy center honors billy joel. 23 reasons zoe hart and wade need to get back together. daily prophet book review. 16 creative ways to work out if you live in nyc. 21 times “community” got its groove back. a humble reminder that you’re not the center of the universe. 15 photos of the east coast snowstorm that will make you forget it was actually terrible. same-sex couples urge supreme court to let utah weddings continue during appeal. 24 next level bonkers science gifs. big three automakers have disappointing december, but sell over 7 million in 2013. 31 healthy and delicious ways to cook with chia seeds. which "will & grace" character are you?. 36 genius ways to hide the eyesores in your home. celebrate the “downton abbey” season 4 premiere in the most grantham way possible. see the alleged ufo spotted over california on new year’s eve. late night with seth meyers. three photos of stoner david brooks in high school. create your own pokémon in 4 easy steps. the 25 best moments of the "veronica mars" movie trailer. 18 things celebrities did this week. jennifer hudson bought her assistant a house and he reacted appropriately. 17 things to look forward to now that the holidays are over. the only gif you need to see today. omg, these talking eggs. who will replace thomas roberts on msnbc at 11 o’clock?. justin bieber and selena gomez spotted on segways together. morrissey: “i see no difference between eating meat and paedophilia”. this is the most inspirational video of a hamburger you’ll ever see. 25 universal horrors of hair removal. these people still lined up for cronuts in the snow and freezing cold. 5 easy ways to be a tad bit happier in the new year. lies we’re told when searching for jobs. you’re as cold as ice. down goes alabama! oklahoma slays college football’s dragon. 27 geektastic keychains for all your favorite fandoms. 19 perks of having an artsy best friend. 17 struggles of having a common name. os 22 lugares mais legais para se casar nos estados unidos. 36 álbumes que cumplirán 20 años en el 2014. america vs. britain: twitter decides who is better. the uk’s severe weather and floods as captured by instagram. this corgi’s sad noises are too adorable. the craigslist ad the nfl doesn’t want you to see. twitter’s biggest problem illustrated in one chart. someone has recreated the full “reservoir dogs” script on twitter and it’s amazing. definitive proof david gandy is actually dean gaffney. a vida antes de cachorros vs. a vida depois de cachorros. 14 cosas que pasan en todas las conferencias telefónicas. the real ages of ’00s movie teenagers. russian crystal maiden. time travellers don’t use twitter, according to scientific study. i guarantee you will not be looking at miley cyrus in this photo. the 8 kinds of people who do dry january. what yahoo answers can teach us about humanity. 36 coisas que vão fazer você sentir-se velho. clasificación de los peinados de jennifer lawrence en el 2013. the disappearing tree. cute fluffy soft caterpillar. a lot of people in canada are experiencing mysterious “frost quakes”. wild turkey versus delivery man. hand feeding a fox. os melhores memes de celebridades de 2013. las 33 razones por las que miley cyrus fue realmente lo mejor que le pasó al 2013. here’s what happens when you get adults to do a school science test. this man keeps getting arrested because he’s addicted to drinking petrol. british national party leader nick griffin declared bankrupt. 16 reasons why you secretly love tom daley’s "splash!". which s club 7 member are you?. the most followed artists on twitter & the real reasons why people do. proof that the demon from "paranormal activity" obviously had a super crush on every single person. 5 buzzfeed lists that (shockingly) don’t exist. 17 kangaroos that can kick your butt. 10 delicious desserts. 21 preuves que les hommes sont plus cons que les femmes. 31 things that happen after 5pm on a friday. elementary  school takes students lunch away- they owe them money!. 33 budgie smugglers you cannot unsee. little girl’s reaction to finding out she’s getting a baby brother is hilarious. first look: barneys spring campaign features 17 breathtaking trans models. the man who ran the $700 billion bailout wants to be california’s next governor. sh*t canadians living in the states have to deal with. this “friends” script written by an 8 year old is spot-on. the 7 worst tiger handheld games of the ’90s. 23 experiences every non-football fan has on superbowl sunday. hilarious! before the term viral, this poor youth pastor had me laughing each time i watched this video, which was a lot!. 13 life-changing moments youtubers have shared online. washington sought advice on "redskins" issue from politician with history of racial slur problems. what you need to know about the scarlett johansson and sodastream controversy. what happens when two women re-watch "pretty woman". 20 things female sports fans are tired of hearing. 31 vines that are guaranteed to make you laugh. a state-by-state look at the future of legal marijuana. jessica mauboy was on “sesame street” and it was adorable. where “american horror story: coven” went wrong. these two teenagers are masters of tutting, a hypnotic hand dance you must see. 22 times lana del rey fell asleep while singing. chad johnson is the leader of black twitter and seven other crazy things chad johnson said today. 12-year-old lorde was super adorable. an original sketch idea that no one’s ever done before. why eating bugs is the future. 13 celebrity #tbt photos you may have missed this week. this is what people think justice for islan nettles, a transgender murder victim, looks like. pope francis blesses male stripper’s talking parrot. 8 parks and recreation etsy finds. 16 comics that socially nervous people understand. 9 celebrity tweets you missed today. this year’s 12 hottest super bowl players (according to a gay dude and a straight dude). stop everything because now there is pizza perfume. 7 things you should never say to women. what career should you actually have?. university of illinois chancellor responds to hate comments with eloquent essay. 10 reasons opera star renee fleming will rock the 2014 super bowl. why it’s so hard to leave your house. top reasons you should not move to austin, texas. mexican supreme court upholds equal public benefits for same-sex couples. the weather channel removes editor for "where meteorologists go to die" tweet. 15 reasons why being an australian beach lifeguard is the best job ever. 22 phobias that every twenty-something will battle with at least once. jessica simpson out and about in new york city. is zynga breaking its facebook addiction?. in memoriam: colonel meow. as criações fofíssimas deste artista farão você sorrir. 9 things you didn’t know about places you know in new york city. mira cómo estos hámsters adorablemente dramáticos fingen su propia muerte. 24 gifts people in long-term relationships actually want to receive. 19 things you probably didn’t know about “the castle”. 32 pictures of katy perry’s style evolution. cate blanchett at the 3rd annual aacta awards ceremony in sydney. which whit stillman movie character are you?. 10 things you didn’t know about the goodess that is jennifer lawrence. 12 awesome lego images that will make your inner geek cry with joy.. house gop leadership: no “special path” to citizenship for undocumented immigrants, but potential legal status. 21 efeitos colaterais inesperados de estar num relacionamento. amazon has a bad holiday season; says it may raise price of prime subscriptions. 22 bill murray gifts for your quirky valentine. the ultimate list of the the best tv dads. what’s your snack-food horoscope?. glorious images of a bunch of obliterated google data servers. 21 unexpected side effects of working 9 to 5. racism in advertising still exists, and is a huge problem. google’s reasoning for cutting motorola loose is starting to make a lot more sense. abercrombie buyout possibility grows with even more management changes. some odd animal friendship videos to brighten your day. the expectations versus reality of getting a cat. this woman’s knee looks like kanye west. is the stampede from the lion king still scary with rabbits?. the 10 greatest disney songs lead the daily links. 17 ways disney movie scenes could have gone way, way worse. amanda knox found guilty of murder in italian retrial. assista a estes adoráveis hamsters fingirem suas próprias mortes. 15 artículos cruciales que necesitas el día de tu boda, según pinterest. these new posters for "captain america: winter soldier" are missing one key element. superpope graffiti gets papal tweet of approval, rome police get all lex luthor and paint over it. 24 celebrity bobs that will make you wish you had shorter hair. this guy won tickets to the super bowl by calling a number from an old spice commercial. leigh steinberg: "being successful in the world wasn’t difficult, it was dealing with these personal things". meet the suspect who inspired one of the greatest police sketches of all time. 19 signs you are from brooklyn. which canadian stereotype are you?. 14 signs you are type a. beyoncé shares an adorable baby photo of herself. new documents raise questions about keystone environmental study. the 6 steps to sleeping with a cat. 25 completely scientific reasons why women live longer than men. janet mock opens up about her experiences as a trans sex worker at age 16. 42 things that happened during my day with the second most famous pomeranian in the world. 22 dificuldades que todas as garotas cheinhas sabem que são verdade. 21 cosas que pasan cuando no comes carne. 9 times the "american horror story: coven" finale borrowed from "asylum". 28 reasons you should be watching “chicago pd”. house republicans struggle to find consensus on next debt fight. britney spears - greatest gum chewing moments. 11 everyday things that once could have killed you. 13 things the cast of “game of thrones” is thinking in the new season. here’s the amazing onesie you need to wear to your super bowl party. feds to seek death penalty in boston bombing case. tina fey joined jerry seinfeld for "comedians in cars getting coffee". which sandwich are you?. are these mind-blowing products real?. where is super bowl xlviii taking place?. melissa mccarthy bought the olympic torch for new "snl" promos. 19 casais de famosos dos anos 2000 que foram completamente esquecidos. porqué pitbull es realmente increíble y todos deberíamos quererlo. utah school throws out children’s lunches because their parents owed money. this tumblr user shows her horrific anonymous messages in a powerful art project. syrian opposition leader who first suggested negotiations is now wary on geneva talks. 23 things i learned about cable news by hanging out with cnn at state of the union. hilarious proof that contemporary dance is all the same. definitive timeline of every bizarre and illegal thing justin bieber has done in the last two years. 16 insightful gems on "lord of the rings" from the cast. heterospray! so you can be safe at the olympics. colorado pot smokers can still be fired for failing drug tests. 16 new “game of thrones” season 4 photos!. the 13 types of best friends you’ll have in your life. check out delta’s totally radical ’80s-themed safety video. how to eat chicken wings like a genius. 21 things you’re doing wrong in the bathroom. 23 signs you’re the marnie of your friend group. rob ford defends justin bieber. why cats make great pets. obama snubs art history majors in speech. this is what happens when a suspected bomb is left in a new york city park. 18 desenhos animados dos anos 90 que você provavelmente esqueceu que existiram. 19 parejas famosas del 2000 totalmente olvidadas. 22 life lessons we learned from the spice girls. 21 super cool bowls. 22 beaches that will make you forget about the polar vortex. how to prosecute and defend the real wolf of wall street. beliebers worldwide react to justin’s continuing legal problems. mobile mark. 331 things that are way more exciting than actually watching the super bowl. world’s most disturbing psa promises death to those who don’t stay in school. 14 extraños anuncios de belleza viejos. gladys the gorilla adorably celebrates her first birthday. which deadly sin are you guilty of?. a “seinfeld” reunion of sorts is coming very, very soon. msnbc made the most interesting super bowl ad you’ll never see during the game. 14 things we learned from bob saget, john stamos and dave coulier’s reddit ama. 11 oreo related products that you need in your life. time-travelling amazon reviews of the next series of "doctor who". world’s greatest son surprises diehard seahawks fan mom with super bowl tickets. this california artist uses a rake to create murals in beach sand and they’re beyond stunning. not a major motion picture: the literary equivalents of 10 great films. republicans work to shake “party of no” image. 13 things you didn’t know about profanity. 21 efectos secundarios inesperados de estar en una relación. 21 coisas que os tímidos estão cansados de escutar. 9 bizarre patents that prove the past was a nightmare. now there’s a version of mail online written by philosophers. the story behind storytellers. 14 reasons smart guy was the best thing about the disney channel. 8 tube hacks every londoner needs to know. a man has been arrested after mistaking a policewoman for a stripper. 11 biggest problems you’ll have being an nfl lineman in congress. 22 motivos pelos quais ter um irmão parece ser demais. 22 razones por las que tener un hermano parece genial. ellen degeneres dances her heart out in hilarious super bowl commercial. make this "valentine’s day in a box". rejoice, irn-bru ice cream is finally here. what color lantern would you be?. 61 adorable behind-the-scenes moments at puppy bowl x. 35 fabulous fandom valentine’s day cards. cute lion cubs hone their hunting skills on a gopro camera. can you make it through these medical horror stories without feeling queasy?. 14 anúncios retrô de beleza bem estranhos. how much of a wanker are you?. 25 razones por las que beber cuando eres menor de edad es lo peor. 20 brightly-hued ways to eat blood oranges. which buzzfeed australia editor are you actually?. people are making some alarming and wonderful things with this lego game. 25 things leslie knope will miss about ann perkins when she leaves “parks and rec”. 13 things that welsh people are really sick of hearing. 28 problemas exclusivos de quem é ridiculamente bonito. 28 problemas que solo tienen las personas ridículamente atractivas. an important and definitive ranking of every james bond film. 15 pieces of panda swag you need to get immediately. this is what every single episode of “the one show” is like. michael schumacher is slowly being woken up from his coma. you can now study beyoncé at university. google autocomplete reveals what people really think about politicians. the 22 funniest things jimmy carr has ever said. someone re-wrote the first three "star wars" films in shakespearean verse. 17 scrumptious ways to eat a creme egg. what celebrities would look like if they were fat. 24 super bowls to hold all the dips for super bowl xlviii.. 20 dogs who can’t get enough harry potter. get things done: the 12 essential willpower tools in one infographic. the men of “full house” reunited to help jimmy fallon with his nightmares. who is the supreme? american horror story: coven season finale. les 10 scénarios érotiques les plus surfaits. 6 tips to do better on your next test. 15 one direction songs that sound like other songs. 19 reasons andy dwyer is your spirit animal. 10 things that are probably almost definitely maybe less orange than john boehner. things new englanders will learn about driving in southern california. 25 ‘pornhub comments on stock photos’ that are very dirty yet generic. 13 awesome childhood toys that made bath time great. 10 crazy plot twists the walking dead needs to do. baking soda and vinegar - mustard challenge - tongue frozen to pole | top challenges #32. 13 signs you grew up as an only child. ackman pours out some whiskey profits. edith windsor’s lawyer seeks to argue in utah marriage appeal. what do your personal political beliefs say about you?. here’s what seventeen magazine thought the “friends” girls carried in their bags. stephen colbert was so ridiculously adorable in college. former christie ally claims the governor knew about lane closures. 10 short stories you should read this winter. 7 reasons we’re super pumped for mike and nicole’s wedding. 26 ridiculously sweet valentine’s day nail art designs. rex ryan thinks his brother might get an nfl head coaching job if he cuts his hair. 9 board games to get really excited about this year. 31 reasons you can’t wait for baseball season. obama’s labor department refuses to say if it’s protecting trans workers. this is literally the most dangerous game you could ever play. 13 things only perpetually cold people will understand. photos of paul newman on stage in drag. there’s an artist who drinks colored milk and throws it up all over canvases. peta’s new super bowl ad: ‘don’t be that guy’. fateful findings is your new favorite cult film. 19 pieces of advice from tami taylor that will make you a better person. 10 patriotic diys to get you pumped for the olympics. seis negócios que fariam o maior sucesso se viessem para o brasil. this is a public service announcement. which team should you be rooting for in the super bowl?. 14 paperbacks that are reenacting their own plots. 21 signs you’re the jessa of your friend group. student who was allegedly beaten to death after being taunted for his hairstyle sparks racism debate in india. conan o’brien tried to sell all of his old memorabilia at a pawn shop and it was hilarious. environmentalists activate nationwide protest plan to greet keystone report. the definitive ranking of animals riding on turtles*. here’s a stunning first-person view of a free-fall from space. 10 times seth meyers cracked up at his own jokes lead the daily links. someone mashed up “game of thrones” with different disney movies and it works so perfectly. which “martin” character are you?. threadless founder jake nickell reminds us to “never stop making”. nyc commissioner’s ancestors were slaves of benedict cumberbatch’s family. 27 cosas de estar en tus treintas que subestimas. 36 coisas que você nunca percebeu que todo mundo faz também. 7 reasons why jennifer lawrence would be an amazing best friend. google: white house did not turn off comments section on google+ hangout with obama. olympian blake skjellerup’s 13 steps to getting ready for a nude photo shoot. alison brie makes craigslist missed connections actually sound romantic. 23 essential items for every guy in his early twenties. a super bowl cheat sheet for fans looking to catch up very quickly. definitive proof that the men of tumblr are the best. 21 experiences only the overly-enthusiastic know to be true. why you should forget the werewolf diet. why jesse eisenberg will make an amazing lex luthor. who said it: a child or a serial killer?. 15 molten lava cakes you could fall hard for. here’s the tim tebow super bowl commercial you didn’t ask for but will definitely enjoy. 25 ideas ingeniosas para maestros de primaria. 24 indícios de que você pode ser um acumulador. 10 upsides of long-distance relationships. life hacks every hippie should know. 22 things only yogis will understand. 8 dogs that probably work harder than you. the definitive ranking of monsters. forget the super bowl, try a puppy in a bowl instead. 20 signs you’re filburt from “rocko’s modern life”. kerry washington’s journey from girl to gladiator. do you eat your age?. 9 feature stories we’re reading this week: figure skating’s gay problem and nipplegate remembered. fbi investigates suspicious “white powder” at super bowl hotels. kids taste test gourmet food. 12 ways to spend valentine’s day alone. kate dicamillo: “it’s easier to do the work than it is not to do the work”. 11 cosas de todos los días que podrían haberte matado. 24 sinais de que encontros não são para você. the life of a phish fan in a world that thinks phish is stupid. pitch perfect 2 release date announced. 200 close friends threw an early prom for their friend who was diagnosed with brain cancer. 40 diy valentine’s day gifts they’ll actually want. 101 relationship statuses facebook needs in these confusing times. 22 travel trends to look forward to in 2014. "mean girls" valentine’s day cards for the fetchest losers in your heart. no, “the simpsons” did not predict the super bowl matchup. jesse eisenberg will play lex luthor in superman/batman movie. floating arms and a gun. tv confidentialshow no. 218: remembering dave madden, russell johnson and the beatles’ first appearance on ed sullivan. 25 motivos completamente científicos pelos quais as mulheres vivem mais que os homens. 18 razones por las que deberias salir con un vegetariano. 33 perfect justin timberlake moments in celebration of his 33rd birthday. surreal photos of a house nearly getting destroyed by a giant boulder. what type of parent are you?. this foot locker commercial starring anthony davis is hilarious. your mental sorbet: pete seeger - if i had a hammer (the hammer song) (live at farm aid 2013). an artist has been protesting violent movies by photoshopping himself getting killed by their posters. the top hedge funds of 2013 had some crazy returns. 5 reasons we owe civilization as we know it to beer. 15 reasons why you should adopt chinese new year. 10 cold-hearted bastards of russian literature. the definitive ranking of all 29 villains from “scooby-doo, where are you?”. what to watch on sunday if you’re not into the super bowl. rihanna and shakira’s new music video could be dangerous for your health. the 36 greatest moments from one direction’s "midnight memories" video. 23 gifts you should give your butt for valentine’s day. pretty much every time an anti-gay pastor cites "science". 18 caricaturas de los años 90 que probablemente olvidaste que existían. 35 frustrações causadas por jogar video game nos anos 90. what kind of a rino are you?. 23 things you probably didn’t know about the plant kingdom. obama says changing legality of marijuana “a job for congress,” but that’s misleading. which rapper are you?. hate sports? well, you’ll still love these 10 books about sports. this is the cutest "do it for the vine" you will ever see. what it’s like trying to decide which member of one direction you’re most in love with. online support group for russian lgbt teens charged with violating "homosexual propaganda" law. the many underused uses of the middle finger. the glorious, fabulous lives of the real house poms of beverly hills. helen mirren tried out twerking and it was just the best. a christian rapper recorded an anti-gay version of macklemore’s "same love". 15 cute parks and rec galentine’s day gifts. 29 ansiedades secretas das garotas que têm cabelo natural. thor 3 is definitely going to happen. 11 times a box was a cat’s best friend. miley cyrus has some advice for justin bieber. international olympic committee criticizes sochi organizers over press freedom. ian mckellen and patrick stewart are excited but clearly confused about the super bowl. 11 things we learned from the cast of "vampire academy". why the day after the super bowl should be a national holiday. 15 diy pom-pom projects for jazzing up everyday items. memes de ‘caso cerrado’ que contestarán las preguntas más importantes del mundo. aaron paul, bill murray, and rob thomas fanboy over each other at a concert. this is the most adorable photo ever of crack-smoking mayor rob ford getting tickled. 20 science fiction and fantasy books coming out for february, 2014. 11 eye-opening before-and-after photos of burlesque performers. 8 types of friends you want in your late twenties. 37 reasons bobby moynihan deserves to have the best 37th birthday ever. miley cyrus was the sassiest, most adorable child ever. west country entrepreneurs team up with michel roux jr to create a 2.5 acre farm 100ft under london.. porque o sexo vai ser muito bacana no futuro. 21 cosas que los introvertidos están cansados de escuchar. everything you need to know about that insane online space battle that cost $300,000. what to expect when your wife/girlfriend is expecting (for men). these children have hilariously dressed up as celebrities at the grammys. what does your morning alarm sound like?. the 13 most important jennifer lawrence’s career milestones. this couple put their wedding together in 24 hours so the bride’s sick mom could see them get married. 15 cats and dogs who have got valentine’s day down. david cameron takes french president françois hollande down the pub. 15 reasons to leave ariana grande’s hair alone. 10 life lessons you learned from “school of rock”. 21 revealing sculptures of characters from your childhood. 10 adorable guinea pigs dressed as tiny superheroes. 7 delicious ways to eat pomegranate. 26 gorgeous free fonts you need in your life. 18 conséquences inattendues de la vie de couple. por que o pitbull na verdade é ótimo e todos nós deveríamos amá-lo. 29 preocupaciones secretas de chicas con cabello natural. raffaele sollecito has been detained by police near the austrian border. 24 celebrities you didn’t know went to oxbridge. 21 statues who are having a worse day than you. 15 incredibly creative examples of coffee cup art. 21 histórias verdadeiramente insanas por trás de seus alimentos favoritos. las pequeñas y lindas creaciones de este artista te harán sonreir. this family built an amazing coloured igloo. the worst police sketch in history caught a suspect after all. a “back to the future” musical is coming to london next year. 14 spectacularly geeky chat up lines. homemade starship enterprise: star trek enthusiast recreates iconic ship. the 17 funniest things noel gallagher has ever said. there is an etsy artist who cross stitches pop lyrics and they are so perfect. this video of police officers honoring a fallen k-9 officer will melt your heart. why is the world’s gayest sport stuck in the closet?. 15 big game nail art ideas. sloths pooping is the cutest thing your eyeballs will ever witness. get to know some of the many meteorological marmots of north america. the devil will be in the details say advocates after house gop immigration principles unveiled. call it a comeback: colts storm back to stun chiefs in playoff opener. 8 things i learned during my solo adventure to paris. new york will loosen its marijuana laws, according to report. living in new york as a child vs. as an adult. is the nsa spying on you?. rob ford “best mayor ever” pot legal money not? and more!. danny dyer hits out at homophobic comments on twitter!. 12 signs you were in an a capella group. texas mayor declares 2014 will be his town’s “year of the bible”. 23 photos that prove hairless cats are actually adorable. dennis rodman will bring six other ex-nba players to north korea. 9 videos you can’t miss this week. winnie the pooh’s next vacation spot: colorado. these adorable girls claim they accept bitcoins at their lemonade stand. everything you ever wanted to know about redheads. this teacher got the best bonus ever. a small plane made an emergency landing on a new york city expressway. 19 signs you’re a complete disaster. honoring heroic women of 2013. 23 photos that prove new england is the ultimate winter wonderland. inside the only library in the world that has computers instead of books. lena dunham and shia labeouf got in a twitter fight about his skywriting apology. comedian natasha leggero won’t apologize for pearl harbor joke during new year’s broadcast. disturbing facts about organic food. style resolutions inspired by hit songs. the last year in sports was unpredictable, spectacular, and (usually) fantastic — just like every year. 22 masterfully sculpted heinies. the “baby-sitters club” guide to babysitting. 12 outdated items every twentysomething should own. 11 surprising facts about creativity. who u b - free music. lawyer for “wolf of wall street” malaysian backer threatens blogger with lawsuit over critical report. wolf & hare. 16 awesome instagram accounts from deep in the heart of texas. 23 animals really enjoying colorado’s new law. 28 reasons joaquin phoenix is the greatest actor working right now. 20 sigur rós songs to celebrate 20 years of sigur rós. far from russia’s biggest cities, being gay means being always under threat. meet the woman with the most famous bum on instagram. 5 disney films that have the most drinking. msnbc’s melissa harris-perry makes tearful televised apology to the romney family. 31 insanely clever remodeling ideas for your new home. stephen malkmus on why you shouldn’t trust your taste in your twenties. 29 healthy versions of your favorite comfort foods. these siblings recreated 12 adorable childhood photos. the similarities of doctor who and sherlock holmes. 24 signs you’re addicted to beauty products. the most fab and drab celebrity outfits of the week. this is what yahoo answers can teach us about humanity. scientists can make stuff levitate using sound. cutest meows and chirps - 2nd compilation. 6 pairings that guarantee you won’t want to miss a second of “celebrity big brother”. how alo and mini taught us that opposites attract. pitt/cumberbatch faceswap. untouched 1942 apartment discovered in paris. les 18 choses les plus horribles de tous les temps. amazonsmile will help you make a difference. why 2014 won’t be the year for new immigration laws. 18 vidéos qui vous donneront envie de voyager. 28 images that depict the barest of humanity. 28 signs you went to unc chapel hill. 14 essential habits of highly successful procrastinators. 23 questions left unanswered in “cry baby”. kim kardashian and blac chyna show off their best assets. 18 photos that prove sparklers are a must at your wedding. how cold are you?. 18 reasons why you want marshall eriksen from "how i met your mother" to be your best friend. 14 corgis that don’t care it isn’t comic-con. when is it ok to ask whether a public figure is gay?. your group of friends as told by the characters of ‘toy story’.. how to grieve for a life that never began. 13 problems only uncoordinated people understand. urban outfitters pulls “depression” crop-top from website after outcry. proof that lorde is totally secretly in "the craft" coven. 10 things game of thrones fans go through.. jetblue did something awesome for a bunch of stranded new yorkers. the boy whose skin fell off - documentary. 27 crucial wardrobe items you’ll need to start your very own boy band. moms get creepy as hell in the new old spice ad. the 13 most important moments of the 2014 “dancing on ice” launch. 6 truly terrifying pictures from mary maxim’s knitting patterns. 19 things pop culture addicts know to be true. night of the living dead (1968). the 15 stages of trying online dating for the first time. the great train robbery - documentary. harsh murder headline has jewish leaders weighing boycott of new york post. 8 leading ladies who chose between two really hot men. google glass web series. 6 picks from the crawley’s book club. gta 5 san andreas style [instrumental] - free music. comic kevin nealon and leann rimes live-tweeted a plane crash in aspen. “paranormal activity: the marked ones” scares up the lowest debut for the franchise. this guy recorded one second each day of his crazy year and it’s pretty adorable. 22 things only soulcycle fans will understand. the 16 stages of the stomach flu. if you ask siri about "her," she throws some serious shade. 16 problems only invisible people will understand. 21 times skateboarders made you believe physics didn’t exist. utah marriage equality opponents call for “uprising”. what is air force life like? 12 posters that romanticize flight. stefon from snl’s weekend update discusses his trip to rome. why game of thrones needs to be back on my tv now. a science teacher lost 37 pounds after eating nothing but mcdonald’s. idris elba has a complicated and sexual relationship with bow ties. are justin bieber and selena gomez back together again?. 25 things that happen when you’re 25. 19 animals who can’t believe their eyes right now. which “oc” character are you?. the most embarrassing moments of a girl’s life from ages 14 to 40. 29 unexpectedly awesome things about being pregnant. 14 alternate "catcher in the rye" covers. look at these drunk christmas trees. 28 things the harry potter movies left out. 9 feature stories we’re reading this week: serpent handlers and a rivalry remembered. how a single mother became the target of internet hate after meeting david cameron. five north korean children playing guitars. tens of thousands of african refugees are protesting for their rights in israel. 12 celebrities who have the most slappable faces. the pope will visit the holy land in may. at least eleven dead in bangladesh poll violence. tom daley has shared his first photo with boyfriend dustin lance black and it’s the cutest. this woman had a three-hour orgasm and ended up in hospital as a result. i am bruce lee - documentary. just some social media-themed cakes. portuguese soccer legend eusebio has died. britain scrambled a destroyer to challenge a russian warship last month. the ashes are over and england have been absolutely destroyed. 20 things that are colder than you right now. you need to shut everything down right now. the 10 stages of shoe shopping. you won’t believe what this raccoon can do under a car. 15 reasons college football’s championship game should always be played at the rose bowl. china destroys six tons of ivory in its first public crushing. your holiday sor-bay: three kings day. 41 powerful messages from a selfie protest in lebanon. these fake harry styles/kendall jenner exchanges make “hendall convos” the best new twitter of 2014. 12 unsettling retro ads featuring kids. a whole bunch of people threw boiling water in the air to watch it freeze and burned themselves. 6 awesome songs that make 6 new movies better. michael bay made the most awkward stage exit ever. 31 things that always make atlanta braves’ fans happy. top 8 resoluções de ano novo inspiradas em séries de tv. a large section of the midwest is currently colder than the south pole. this comic perfectly explains what white privilege is. how much is an original american girl doll worth?. the 32 worst things about working in food. 23 pessoas que são bem mais desajeitadas que você. senate delays vote to extend unemployment benefits. there’s a charity campaign to make ice cube’s goodyear blimp a reality. change.org deletes indian petition to reject gays’ “repulsive and extremely abnormal lifestyle”. 13 things people with a january birthday have to deal with. the "sherlock" drinking game. 12 beatles covers that will leave you speechless. os 35 fatos mais fofos de todos os tempos. 33 juguetes de tu infancia que ahora valen una fortuna. 8 celebrity tweets you missed today. michael bay flubs his lines, flips out about it. ranking the 107 men of “sex and the city”. 21 pick-up lines that would totally work on you. ‘no way’ kerry will get detailed framework agreement for peace talks, says senior israeli official. 27 overwhelming feelings every college senior has in the spring. 21 of the most los angeles books ever. behold neil patrick harris in tiny, tiny shorts. watch photoshop transform your favorite celebrities right before your eyes. chicago’s ban on gun sales ruled unconstitutional by federal judge. the 23 stages of a tinder relationship. 17 steps to having a perfect textual relationship. these are the new laws you need to know about in 2014. 12 worst types of kisses. kim kardashian out shopping in beverly hills, california. ed sheeran released 2014 tour info. ranking dos estilos de cabelo da jennifer lawrence em 2013. 17 cosas que te volverán loco si tienes toc (trastorno obsesivo-compulsivo). why you should be following tracee ellis ross on instagram. a polar bear vortex. 29 actors that prove everything is hotter down under. 23 of the best extreme selfies. 21 wonderful behind-the-scenes photos of “i love lucy”. kourtney kardashian out and about in calabasas, california. what video games would look like without outsourcing. taylor swift shops for groceries in west hollywood, california. sasheer zamata named newest “saturday night live” member. jennifer lawrence: “i’m trying to clean up my act”. dad celebrates his son’s 1st birthday by making him a video game star. lgbt groups ask apple to cut ties with russian retailer after creative director advocates burning gay people alive. kylie minogue at the dolce and gabbana collection event held in london. 19 hilarious pictures of people posing on splash mountain. mike birbiglia is going on a never-ending comedy tour. how two sac capital traders used lobsters and cheesecake factory gift cards to make millions. 47 famous people who went to catholic school. 36 photos of norman reedus that will give you a zombie boner. the complete history of people making the same joke about the men’s wearhouse motto. 10 shocking places on earth that are warmer than the mainland us right now. there is a videogame that looks like "steamboat willie" and it is going to be awesome. gary shteyngart officially named "pathological russophobe" on eve of book launch. 38 cosas que las chicas católicas aman. camilla alves at the 25th annual palm springs international film festival awards in palm springs. julia roberts at the 25th annual palm springs international film festival awards in palm springs. lupita nyong’o at the 25th annual palm springs international film festival awards in palm springs. 5 kids movie pranks that went way too far lead the daily links. amy adams at the 25th annual palm springs international film festival awards in palm springs. sandra bullock at the 25th annual palm springs international film festival awards in palm springs. meet the troll behind (or not behind) the north korean dog execution hoax. this man is attempting to pick up a “hot brunette” with a picket sign. 17 resoluções de ano novo que todas as pessoas caseiras devem fazer. questions everyone in sf hates. 20 beautifully illustrated quotes from your favorite authors. what it’s like working on blue monday. 20 shows worth watching that just couldn’t make past 3 seasons. ces 2014 is turning into a funeral for 3d. macaulay culkin and his pizza themed band have made the most important pizza themed video ever. 8 reasons this was actually the best cable news network that ever existed. peek into literary new york in the 1920s. buzzfeed movietracker: how the golden globes nominees stack up. andrew garfield and emma stone went surfing in hawaii. this small-town texas yearbook from the ’20s is absolutely delightful. 19 reasons why arachnophobes should give australia a miss. what happens when a family with 8 dogs get snowed in. what your favorite politicians got into over their long holiday break. 18 passos de dança que aprendemos em 2013. 35 razones para tener hijos. 27 signs you’re in love with the beach. 19 facts proving you should never rap. the fascinating lives of the living dolls. 18 things to look forward to in 2014. how to get rid of your winter boyfriend/girlfriend. green bay let their super bowl dreams slip through their hands in an ultimate what-if game. glenn beck speaks out in defense of melissa harris-perry. the 15 most pouty faces of “reign”. 27 novas maneiras inteligentes de usar seus utensílios de cozinha. 43 cosas que te harán sentir viejo. pinterest just bought a visual search startup. 26 reasons k-pop is better than american pop. four hedge fund trends to watch for in 2014. 16 examples of disney nail art that will render you speechless. the 23 best moments from "sherlock’s" "the sign of three". 32 signs you’re graduating in may. the nyc city council speaker frontrunner is being sued for allegedly putting a santeria curse on an opponent. the most perfect dog vine. "brokeback mountain" is now an opera in madrid. how to eat a chicken wing like a lady [food hack]. watch a kid lip-synch queen’s “don’t stop me now” every day for three years. beautifully haunting photos of a burning building transformed into an ice castle. 8 scientific reasons why having a female boss is the best. 27 things that happen on every episode of “four weddings”. nicki minaj and lil wayne might be having a baby together, and here’s what the kid could look like. steven seagal is considering a bid for governor of arizona. this one pit bull’s transformation will bring you to tears. 22 das melhores selfies extremas. las 18 peores cosas para los zurdos. white house press secretary jay carney has a beard now. 14 must read books for disney lovers. a girl, no older than 10, caught wearing a suicide vest in afghanistan. the 30 dumbest things drunk women have ever done. artist constructs alternate realities out of paper scraps. lgbt rights group to be an official sponsor of australian men’s bobsled team. watch the amazing reaction when a family finds out their son lost 130 pounds since they last saw him. helicopter vs car. pope francis urges new approach to children of gay and divorced couples. someone shouted "we’re coming for you" to an indian-american comic and he handled it perfectly. when eleven became twelve: how the doctors are numbered. proof the guy from interpol only has a vague familiarity with the english language. distance makes the heart grow fonder. 25 horrores universales de afeitarse. rejoice everyone, emma watson is single. the best news bloopers of 2013. remember when meredith vieira was super horny on "who wants to be a millionaire"?. 20 reasons a twentysomething would never survive “the hunger games”. steubenville teen convicted of rape released from juvenile detention after serving less than a year. 17 magical lifehacks to learn from disney movies. this is the key to opening the hellmouth. 20 gifs of famous faces acting drunk. “polar vortex” plunges much of the country into coldest weather in 20 years. ashton kutcher and mila kunis get caught on the kiss cam. why i’m choking on the silver spoon. vine superstar nicholas megalis just came out with a new single you never knew you needed. what to look forward to now that the holidays are over. 17 things you swore you’d never say when you had kids. 13 pasos sencillos para que puedas enfrentar un mal día. did you know that if you google the word "freezing" the results are full of cartoon porn?. what this landmark obscenity trial says about british attitudes to pornography and the law. 29 problemas que só os procrastinadores entendem. white house silence on benefits cuts irks veterans groups. 29 signs you’re a warhammer player. the 13 worst things about collecting comics. anna kendrick and aubrey plaza took a spontaneous trip to mexico together. a family was reunited with their missing son after his photo improbably appeared in usa today. 13 times you have been exactly like tom mison. australian police free naked man from washing machine using olive oil. nhl player evades two defenders like a hockey magician for brilliant goal. lena dunham and allison williams ran into juan pablo. going back to college felt (almost) as hard as fighting cancer. 16 fails that will make you glad it’s finally a new year. london is now the most expensive city in the world. supreme court halts utah same-sex couples’ marriages while case is appealed. top 10 publishing tumblrs. the estate of j. d. salinger vs. the internet. entrepreneur attempts to reinvent the dolls house for 2014. 10 diy tips for keeping your new year’s resolutions. first full “house of cards” season 2 trailer finds frank underwood in a big mess. 31 gifs of hot guys cuddling puppies to make you smile. rupert graves and tom daley prove that cloning is totally a thing. 18 vídeos deslumbrantes em time lapse de todos os cantos do globo. la ropa para niños más cara del mundo. as roupas para crianças mais caras do mundo. 22 de los mejores selfies extremos. three brothers in minnesota spent 95 hours building this incredible 16-foot high snow shark. 14 fierce contributions miranda priestly has made to gif culture. the 23 greatest things that could possibly happen to a british person. this timelapse video is proof that your beer is alive. this off licence has the most amazing name. “blue monday” is the media myth that just won’t die. people trying to reschedule their canceled flights are being kept on hold for a very long time. a volcano has erupted in indonesia, and the pictures are terrifying. the story of a travelling toy fox is the sweetest thing on instagram. a behind-the-scenes look at the insane process of becoming a "teen wolf". evander holyfield thinks being gay is "a choice" and that gay people "can be fixed". alcoholics are being paid with beer to clean up litter in amsterdam. a lion called christian. here’s the “star trek”/”power rangers in space” mashup you always wanted. this woman created the most appalling dating profile ever and men loved it. children’s bank: indian street kids set up bank. this man took a photograph of himself every day for a year and turned the results into a gif. there’s an annual christmas tree throwing contest in germany. 17 surprising pictures of a young russell brand. this cat keeps leaving his home and taking six-week long trips on the metro. signs you are a marching band geek. scumbag puppet. "the sign of three" introduced drunk sherlock and took a lot of people by surprise. 47 sexiest movie performances. liz cheney drops out of wyoming senate race. 6 reasons why mr. bean would be the best friend. 26 chiens qui vivent de grands moments de solitude. 24 tampons that send a powerful political message. kenneth bae’s sister "shocked and outraged" by rodman’s comments. 14 songs to warm you up during the polar vortex. going out on friday night in your 20’s as told by “the hills”. 13 pregnant women detained by ice in texas during four-month period in 2013. dozens of former nyc workers charged with faking illness to collect disability benefits. louis c.k. revealed the end of the ice fishing story from "american hustle". 17 signs you’re grace adler. 23 movies that are turning 20 years old in 2014. ready for hillary raised more than $4 million in 2013. a flight attendant did the entire virgin america safety dance on an actual flight. 24 alternatives to mcdonald’s breakfast. if you were wondering what life in la was like…. mr. freeze puns ranked from horrible to most horrible. 21 things that made you anxious as hell when you were a kid. fox host claims all nigerians are scammers and iranians feed their children to dogs. music lessons from everyday rock stars. trans women carmen carrera and laverne cox handle a cringeworthy interview with katie couric flawlessly. 10 movies to get you hooked on something weird video. white house defends joe biden against book by former defense secretary. 8 celebrity tweets you missed today. tente não ficar emocionado ao ver essas borboletas beijando as lágrimas de uma tartaruga. 9 libros que cambiarán tu vida sexual. u.s. air force helicopter crashes in england, four crew members dead. how a monkey in a toilet helped me find god. 25 times anna kendrick was painfully accurate. why a chinese tycoon’s plans to buy the new york times aren’t (totally) insane. 14 celebrities who don’t necessarily want kids. 30 gifs of hot guys cuddling puppies to make you smile. kaley cuoco’s wedding video is very kaley cuoco. obama cares. karlie kloss at the ‘girls’ season three premiere in new york city. zosia mamet at the ‘girls’ season three premiere in new york city. allison williams at the ‘girls’ season three premiere in new york city. jemima kirke at the ‘girls’ season three premiere in new york city. lena dunham at the ‘girls’ season three premiere in new york city. 9 videos that show how isis violence has spread around syria and iraq. dr. seuss facts you never knew that are truer than truer. 15 pictures of human flexibility that will shock & inspire you. and now for misha collins flirting with william shatner. tumblr reacts to “sherlock’s” “the sign of three”. extending unemployment benefits is still going to be a long, tough slog. 15 australian sports stars that look like shar pei. 28 ways we can all be more like ja’mie king. zac efron went skateboarding through a grocery store. 18 people who became sudden geniuses while high. the 10 best alternatives to ivy league colleges lead the daily links. this hilarious parody of disney’s "frozen" will instantly be relatable to altos everywhere. woman creates ‘worst online dating profile ever’  men still cant resist. #1 piece of advice from cyberbullying lecturer and author. 29 things only movie extras can relate to. internet trolls are trying to make the #bikinibridges trend go viral and it’s unfortunately working. conor oberst accused of raping teenager 10 years ago, denies allegations. 10 facts you need to know about the great lakes. 11 highly accurate comics about smartphones. television’s 20 biggest liars. this congressman uses d.c.’s freezing weather as an excuse to look fabulous. 14 things 2014 should be the death of. 25 best things that could possibly happen to someone from los angeles. amsterdam venue cancels concert by jamaican dancehall star over anti-gay remarks. father of syria’s protest poster movement tours u.s. amid spiraling violence. the joy of bundt cake. 20 videos of bubbles crystalizing in freezing temperatures. i nuked my twitter feed and you should too. 23 symptoms of study abroad withdrawal. los 20 mejores personajes de eugenio derbez. rihanna e katy perry seriam o casal mais poderoso do mundo. 28 fruits and vegetables that you had no idea grew like that. these teenage sisters singing beyoncé’s "pretty hurts" is the best thing you’ll ever hear. why “coyote ugly” is an underrated cinematic classic. 21 google book scans that bring surprising intimacy to the digital book world. proof that there’s a jew inside harry styles just waiting to grow wings and fly. someone get cnn’s stephanie elam some hot chocolate and a pat on the back. the viral video of a reporter on live tv saying he’d have sex with a kidnapped woman is a hoax. banana crates full of cocaine accidentally delivered to german supermarkets. 13 returning tv shows to get excited about. 17 coisas que você jurou nunca dizer quando tivesse filhos. zen and the art of run run shaw. this “pretty hurts” cover is so good it hurts. 50 reasons why nicolas cage is the greatest creature who has ever lived. 14 lgbt films that need to be added to netflix instant streaming right now. the top 10 tees of 2014. a dozen foods that burn more calories than they contain!. 9 special collectibles from disgraced companies you can buy on ebay. 16 white men that could, in fact, jump. a youtube channel with a different take on modern songs. 16 little books to read on long journeys. after a waitress was diagnosed with a brain tumor, her boss is selling his restaurant to pay for the medical bills. 12 propagandas dos anos 80 para você viajar no tempo. 15 reasons arizona should take steven seagal seriously as a candidate for governor. los momentos más vergonzosos de la vida de una chica de 14 hasta los 40 años. apple’s $10 billion side business. 17 signs winter is killing you softly. los angeles county sheriff announces he’s stepping down before end of term. 19 unforgettable moments from the ultimate karl stefanovic fan fiction. 7 google secrets you need to see. jay z gave a young fan a chance to rap during his concert. finally there is an “alien” game that is actually like the movies. 10 life lessons to kickoff 2k14. 8 jaw-dropping pictures of the polar vortex. this photo going viral of a frozen lighthouse is not from the polar vortex. amazing bird creates powerful dog art you need to see right now. former miss venezuela monica spear shot and killed along with husband. how to become an snl castmember in 8 easy steps. this olympics ad will make you want to call your mom. meet bao bao, the baby panda of the smithsonian national zoo. obama defends long-term unemployed as he pushes for benefits extension. alex trebek rapped an entire “jeopardy” category last night. 20 things college freshmen struggle with. tell us about yourself(ie): nicole anderson. 8 artistas latinas que deberías seguir en instagram. whistling supercut music video. devastating cold from “polar vortex” continues to affect more than 180 million. 27 unspoken suit rules every man should know. this hilarious prank proves that you should never fall asleep at a party. this is what happens when you give neil patrick harris endless margaritas. 27 sinais de que você é apaixonado pela praia. 16 diseños para uñas de disney que te dejarán sin palabras. leonardo dicaprio casually mentions that he survived a shark attack. pope francis hangs out with a baby sheep, hard to say which one is cuter. 12 things aspiring creatives will totally understand. a six-year-old lena dunham thought “conga” was the most beautiful song ever. homemade safari: incredible drone footage of serengeti wildlife. 15 things that really deserve the name “polar vortex”. 31 things to warm your heart on this cold day. hockey player goes for late hit, knocks himself out. are your ready for the new season of pretty little liars?. a star trek fan spent $30,000 turning her basement into the starship enterprise. the coming collision between andrew cuomo and bill de blasio. one hundred years of weird fear. 27 everyday situations that are excruciatingly difficult for shy people. this little kid listening to "wrecking ball" is all of us listening to "wrecking ball". hugh jackman has a mullet now. 12 signs you are not getting the job. la versión de wrecking ball que faltaba. this extremely chilling video will make you a much more careful driver. this german igloo village is your new dream holiday destination. 10 great reads that will help you keep your new year’s resolutions. a mom and her 11-year-old daughter have been directing each other in an adorable photography project. 17 nicolas cage-inspired items you deserve to own. 29 coisas inesperadamente incríveis sobre estar grávida. 29 cosas inesperadamente asombrosas acerca de estar embarazada. jpmorgan to pay more than $2.2 billion to bernie madoff fraud victims. meet peeps, the duckling who was raised in a beard. 26 hilarious french translations of hollywood movie titles. 9 brilliant video game inventions you wish existed in real life. 19 problems only people who don’t eat cheese will understand. purple is the best lip color of all time. 10 things you’d rather be doing than walking to work in 5° weather. dennis rodman apologizes after freaking out on cnn, admits he had been drinking. new government guidelines say massage parlours can be offered incentives to take on young jobseekers. lindsay lohan at the 2nd sohu fashion achievement awards ceremony in shanghai. looking back at "the real world: san francisco," the show that changed the world. 18 maravillosos vídeos “time-lapse” de alrededor del mundo. 33 provas de que miley cyrus foi na verdade a melhor coisa que aconteceu em 2013. here’s everything we know about the man who tried to have sex with a train drinks trolley. 11 things to help you if your new years resolution is to smoke more pot. 19 most bizarre moments from “secrets of the living dolls”. 10 excerpts from the diary of a sriracha addict. 21 classic lines from your favorite black films that you absolutely have to mimic every time you watch. lindsey vonn won’t be competing in the sochi olympics. 14 people stuck in really stupid places. 21 coisas que inevitavelmente acontecem quando você trabalha num escritório. la vida antes de los perros comparado con la vida después de los perros. ranking all 27 limo introductions from "the bachelor" season premeire. english village to change its name to king’s landing in honour of "game of thrones". a guide to taking your parrot for a walk. israel outlaws revenge porn. 5 ways to survive a panic attack. 11 bulletproof ways to get through diet season. the many faces of stanley tucci. 25 horrores universais da remoção de pelo. 18 pasos de baile que aprendimos en 2013. the taliban deny involving a 10-year-old girl in a suicide bomb attempt. "sherlock: the sign of three" as an 8-bit video game. 24 signs you were a teenage boyzone obsessive. 19 reasons i’m grateful my dad is gay. we asked 18 people to write down what they think about politicians and it wasn’t pretty. eton has banned its pupils from using snapchat. the great english dialect quiz. 18 signs you’re the youngest person in the office. you’re engilsh are not gunna da dogz lol - part 1. 16 places you should (or shouldn’t) live in london. vine is creating a new breed of internet superstar. worst to best: a ranking of every movie released in december 2013. miller the clever guide dog knows how to use traffic lights. there was an interesting typo on the guardian website this morning. this is the cutest puppy video of the day. 5 fad diets to avoid this january. this dog thinks he’s a siren. the 22 horrible stages of filling in your self-assessment tax return. neil patrick harris (barney) fait les 400 coups au mexique. the 9 empire records products you have to buy on etsy today. china and japan are abusing each other using "harry potter" insults. it’s freezing and you’re a weak human. embattled los angeles sheriff lee baca expected to retire, reports say. watch the "parks and rec" cast adorably celebrate their 100th episode. t-mobile’s ceo crashed an at&t party in vegas and was thrown out. 42 chansons qui auront 10 ans cette année. florida state wins national championship in all-time thriller. 15 helpful charts every new yorker needs. 19 titres de films qu’on aurait mieux fait de garder en vo. the "world’s ugliest woman" is far from ugly. 3 big questions about the 1,360 same-sex couples married in utah. fashion at the 2014 people’s choice awards. mike piazza getting snubbed by baseball hall of fame voters is a damn travesty. justin timberlake went to taco bell after the people’s choice awards. here’s how people in muslim countries want women to dress in public. drew barrymore reminds the world that she’s hollywood’s original “quirky girl”. anti-abortion republicans are largely quiet as israel adopts liberal abortion law. justin timberlake said something sweet about jessica biel in his people’s choice awards speech. why do so many delicious foods start with the letter c?. so you want to give up red meat. 30 signs you went to the university of new mexico. 28 things you’re only afraid of if you live in chicago. 21 facts of life after college:. why jack frost and elsa would make the cutest couple. this sunny-side up egg is a better rapper than you. tisha campbell’s wedding video is the perfect portrait of black pop culture in the ’90s. did you know sylvia plath once went platinum blonde?. why “the secret garden” is one of the most depressing kids’ movies. 25 beautiful quotes about snow. don’t share these photos of a frozen niagara falls, they’re old. illinois movie theater posts amazing "frozen" marquee. freelancing dreams vs. reality. three abducted journalists in syria have been freed. 15 photos that prove ja’mie king can do anything. this little girl’s request for a dragon came true. did “frontline” go too far?. 30 times you wanted to smack the smug off the new england patriots’ faces. 27 signs you suffer from shy girl syndrome. 25 canciones que te harán extrañar los noventas. the most popular music of 2013 isn’t quite what you’d expect. 26 things you need to do before you graduate high school. troian bellisario attends the seventeen magazine unveiling in new york city. powerful anti-speeding commercial will rip your damn heart out. kristen wiig premiere of ifc’s ‘the spoils of babylon” in l.a.. heather graham at universal studios in california. emmy rossum leaving dinner in beverly hills. astros fans, again, are collateral damage in hall of fame voters’ temper tantrum. 16 vietnamese restaurants obsessed with puns. someone stole lindsay lohan’s laptop (and it has dirty pictures on it). kangaroos are actually disgusting: and this is why. permanent marker t-shirt - super glue challenge - tickle torture | top challenges #27. everything you need to know about mindy kaling’s elle magazine controversy. heritage scholar slams marco rubio’s anti-poverty speech. inside the mind of hannibal buress, comedy’s biggest risk-taker. melissa mark-viverito is first latino to be named city council speaker in new york city. 10 weird facts that will make you question everything. 16 inacreditavelmente ridículos esportes mundiais. new york governor outlines medical marijuana pilot program. 15 signs you go to a "ring by spring" school. artist quotes from this week’s designers!. 26 things that happen when your significant other is out of town. beyoncé and kelly rowland crashed some girl’s karaoke party. macy’s laying off 2,500 employees. 25 signs you’re about to turn 25. 18 ways to get involved at your kid’s school. 10 women to watch out for on stage in 2014. 29 delicious whole wheat pasta dishes. this awesome timelapse shows exactly what 100 days at the gym looks like. the curious case of yahoo’s app reviews. every single curse word in “the wolf of wall street” leads the daily links. 18 ways to make the best of your twenties. 18 body positive style bloggers you should be following. 10 things orlando jones would give you if he were oprah. white house: global warming caused the polar vortex. 47 signs you’ll only see in australia. 25 sinais de que você não está pronto para ter filhos. an iranian artist asked 50 people in tehran “if you could do anything you wanted, what would you do?”. 35 foods from your childhood that are extinct now. 24 crazy things that have already happened this year in florida. this is what it’d be like if your mom was your gps. 20 californians throwing the good weather in everyone else’s face. 7 reasons why tim tebow is actually a great fit for espn. "saturday night live" hires lakendra tookes and leslie jones, both african-american women. 9 surprising facts about ebay. 13 signs you’re at a liberal school. the 23 laziest things that have ever happened. 13 signs you’re at a conservative school. o gato toco e sua irmãzinha humana são os bagunceiros mais adoráveis que já existiram. woman gets dirty during man on the street sex interview. the one thing you somehow didn’t notice in "austin powers" as a kid. these creative snapchats between friends will make you want to up your texting game. beth behrs "accidentally" grabbed kat dennings’ boob. 47 iconic album covers recreated with legos. notebook full of gorgeous middle earth art. white house denies obama’s opposition to iraq surge was based on politics. this whovian made a tardis that’s bigger on the inside. the 26 items every woman needs in her wardrobe. 12 vintage photos of nyc in winter that will warm your heart. new “suits” trailer serves up jaw-dropping betrayal. 17 legendary tv shows every 20-something must binge-watch.. j.c. penney’s numbers-free sales update viewed as bad news. 10 reasons why you are annoying after traveling abroad for over a year. the 10 shows you’ll watch on netflix. effort to repeal new california transgender protections law to move forward. 25 ways to know you’re a true carolina panthers fan. 20 momentos constrangedoramente sexuais da disney. 19 señales que estás demasiado viejo para estas tonterías. video: when christie mocked the bridge scandal and joked about personal involvement. 6 reasons to see pitfeed in nyc on january 30th. 14 signs that you are a film snob. how cats plan on taking over the universe. how a sweat lodge cured my crippling anxiety. we taste-tested the stephen curry-endorsed flavored mouthguard line so you don’t have to. "archer" cast posts nude pictures on reddit’s gonewild. nick clegg is making eyes at ed balls by tweeting “ed balls”. the 8 most awkward family dinner conversations. une série de photos montre le quotidien des homosexuels russes. orlando bloom giggles like a cute little school girl…. 6 people you probably should not invite on a hunting trip. 13 lies you believe until you examine your finances. facebook knows all your posting tricks — and how well they work. the 27 greatest things that could ever happen to a new yorker. were michelle rodriguez and cara delevingne really drunk at the knicks game?. 13 tatuagens que realmente, realmente não fizeram jus à realidade. 31 fotos de  “antes y después” de las increíbles cirugías plásticas en korea. lake michigan has turned into a sea of ice balls. utah marriages of same-sex couples “on hold” pending appeal, governor’s office says. this us rap video filmed in north korea. aubrey plaza plays the saxophone in this band’s music video. 17 things you will love or hate in south korea. two dead after u.s. navy helicopter crashes off virginia coast. insane clown posse filed a lawsuit with the fbi to defend their fans. how to not be a dick on the internet as told by orlando jones. 12 movies from the 1980’s that non-intentionally haunted your childhood. man killed by “atomic wedgie” in oklahoma. reminder: lady gaga has one of the best voices in music. 33 things you probably didn’t know about disney parks. 13 problemas que só as pessoas descoordenadas entendem. 20 cosas que te harán decir: “¡noooooo!”. why empathy is better than sympathy. watch this micro pig succeed at keeping resolutions. 17 emotional highs and lows of buying textbooks. russian actor who called for burning gays alive calls for recriminalization of homosexuality. doug dorst: “it’s the physical fact of the book itself”. the year of the auter. warm your soul as beach-goers in california get snowballs thrown at them. chamber of commerce promises to make opponents pay come november. who owns walt whitman?. kris jenner posts a full body bikini pic on instagram. louis ck one. 21 cats who are secretly excellent readers. 13 images showing what life is like for gay and lesbian russians far from moscow. what happens when a finance company makes a video game. 13 steps of conflict resolution with bravo’s biggest divas. john green tests 30 life hacks found on the internet. 9 ways to protect yourself in the event of alien abduction. this is what kim kardashian’s baby daughter will look like at 21. 17 cosas que juraste que nunca dirías cuando tuvieras hijos. as 35 fotos mais emocionantes já tiradas. the friendship between this abandoned dog and paralyzed cat will melt your heart. clinton once criticized iraq policy being driven by politics. 16 books to read before they hit theaters this year. 7 movies that should have starred orlando jones. gabby giffords was shot in the head three years ago; today she’s going skydiving. in case you were wondering, this is what it looks like when you pee in a polar vortex. the 10 things every fictional bastard needs. 15 reasons coconut oil is your best friend. what “are you afraid of the dark” episodes might be like in 2014. canada’s former defense minister has confirmed that aliens exist. alexander skarsgård naked on a toilet in the freezing tundra. even fox news employees think ann coulter works for fox news. 12 ways you’ll actually enjoy eating more greens in 2014. 36 bodies para o bebê mais legal que você conhece. 31 cosas que nadie te dice acerca de convertirse en padre. 12 life lessons we can learn from dolphins. the 22 biggest assholes leonardo dicaprio has ever played. 18 things (and 3 penises) you can draw while running. 17 kids who have better style than you. student’s honest exam answer is hilarious, teacher’s response is even better. rihanna took cara delevingne to her first basketball game and she loved every second. why life isn’t like a movie. transgender model: “i want to be miss world”. 21 sinais de que você fica acordado até muito tarde. 21 dichas de tener a un mejor amigo en el trabajo. mariah carey and nick cannon cover "ebony" magazine. 13 gothic fragrances (for him). it looks like the world record for skinny dipping has just been broken. family of imprisoned american “outraged” by rodman comments in north korea. these semi-naked “priests” want to challenge your opinion of the orthodox church. 22 things from 1994 that will make you feel old. 19 snowy animals that will make your heart and the ice melt. 21 pequenos erros que você pode não ter percebido em “toy story”. 13 problemas que solo la gente con falta de coordinación entiende. 18 questions i asked myself when i watched “the simpsons” for the first time. 25 things you’ll experience working a ski season. 20 things you should probably have stopped doing by now. rainbow cat poledance party. it finally happened. hell has literally frozen over. 20 ways to survive in the real housewives of beverly hills. the 44 best songs of 1994 according to "now that’s what i call music!". you’re engilsh are still not gunna da dogz lol - part 2. footballer thomas hitzlsperger announces that he is gay. the mystery of this giant amazon package has been solved. os momentos mais constrangedores da vida de uma garota entre os 14 e os 40 anos de idade. 11 things i learnt at my first voga (that’s yoga + voguing) class. an important and definitive ranking of david bowie’s hairstyles over the years. the twitter muppet movie trailer is really quite special. 7 movie posters improved by one-star amazon reviews. matt prior saved a man’s life during england’s ashes tour to australia. 23 signs your ready to go back to school from winter break.. ‘what i be’ true insecurities. it’s david bowie’s birthday and the internet is very excited about it. why you should be watching “almost human”. pornhub just released its data on uk viewing habits. there’s a wonderful "doctor who" tribute at this tube stop today. how to get your favorite character style from hbo’s ” girls”. shia labeouf tweets a cease and desist letter allegedly from daniel clowes’ lawyers. 22 reasons rachel from “friends” would make an awesome bff. 12 reasons we can’t wait for kimye’s 2014 wedding. 27 photos of david tennant that will make your panties drop.. 18 surefire signs you are a psychology major. this rap is super average. this is what happens when a politician pisses off the internet. why i bought a house in detroit for $500. 18 sad songs for chris christie. 23 choses que vous cachez à votre nouveau partenaire. a volcano with blue lava. missing son of boston globe columnist found safe in times square. the legacy of the "boys don’t cry" hate crime 20 years later. california’s spending could reach record heights under new budget proposal. pygmy hippo calf takes her first swim. six reasons as to why my hatred of cheese is perfectly acceptable. this guy proposed to his girlfriend at whole foods a year after meeting her at register two. you need to see this polar bear cub’s first steps. looking at a tardis in a whole new way. “girls” is coming back for a fourth season. 8 times ‘a current affair’ changed the way we look at the world. 14 things you didn’t even realize you stopped doing. 10 things you never knew about new order’s "blue monday". 21 comunidades do orkut completamente inúteis, mas que dão saudades. 24 early britney outfits you can’t unsee. 24 ways you might be a hoarder. have you ever heard sir patrick stewart moo?. harry reid just made a whole bunch of republicans angry over unemployment benefits. 25 signs you went to nyu before it was trendy. egypt extends detention of four al jazeera journalists. the cast of hbo’s “girls” as american girl dolls. 10 child stars who secretly got unbelievably hot. season 4 of "game of thrones" finally has a launch date. 12 quotes from the late amiri baraka. 24 things you wish you could put on your resumé. fema denies aid request for illinois towns devastated by tornadoes. 22 reasons you should never step into an mma ring. amazing snow art. fort lee mayor accepts christie’s apology. the 25 sexiest celebrity cougars. 12 wickedly beautiful perfume bottles inspired by iconic disney villains. why getting a mortgage today is better than 40 years ago. 2016 gop contenders and their biggest scandals to date. kraft’s earnings could melt from velveeta shortage. this is what the “polar vortex” really did to a lake michigan lighthouse. is it just me or are mormons not really that upset over the utah marriage ruling?. 38 of the most hilarious fast food sign fails lead the daily links. the 8 email mailing lists everyone hates the most. the chris christie bridge scandal, as explained by "game of thrones". the 50 weirdest city names in all 50 states. find out which nba team you should be rooting for. 16 works that ernest hemingway thought a young writer should read. these cartoons capture egyptians’ fear and fatigue over upcoming constitutional vote. the 5 worst redskins fans. 23 nights every girl has had at london’s candy bar. there is a "mean girls" jewelry line coming out and it is so fetch. 34 motivos pelos quais a austrália é o lugar mais bonito na terra. laverne cox "grateful" for controversial katie couric interview. this burrito vending machine is perhaps the height of human achievement. 15 reasons january is actually the best month of the year. indian diplomat who was strip-searched is indicted by grand jury on visa fraud. in case you forgot, there is a harry potter character named elphias doge. 27 situações cotidianas que são dolorosamente difíceis para pessoas tímidas. watch this man call an entire herd of deer over for breakfast. 7 epic winter weather experiments to spice up your snow day. instagram caption or philosophical quote?. what age are you, really?. naked alexander skarsgard sitting on things is the meme you’ve always wanted. 31 señales inequívocas de que eres una persona introvertida. gwyneth paltrow is selling overpriced organic sidewalk lemonade. if the cast of “parks and recreation” had amazon wishlists, they might look like this. if you need a hug today then watch this cat give an adorable cuddle. 23 reasons you wish danny castellano were your boyfriend. 12 puppy pictures that will turn a bad day into a good one. 18 reasons to get pumped for awards season. the “orange is the new black” cast looks flawless in elle. india’s luge athlete sped down a himalayan highway to train for the olympics. watch a 120-pound woman devour a steak bigger than her head in under three minutes. grammy real talk: what you can expect to see and not to see on january 26th. 38 reasons the fbi needs to leave juggalos alone. cold-weather tricks you need to see. 11 quotes said to sexual assault survivors by their family members. 10 reactions to health nuts on your facebook news feed. there’s an instagram account that pairs clothing with exhibits in art museums and it’s really neat. watch a 9th grader give obama one of the best intros he’s ever had. politico calls christie “man who makes no apology” three minutes too late. staples accused of cutting employee hours ahead of obamacare. how many 95-year-olds do you know write songs about marriage equality?. this is how diamonds are made - documentary. these hunger games inspired wedding dresses will make you wish you were getting married asap. how microsoft’s ceo search is eerily similar to yahoo’s. "batman" visits brazilian slum where residents are being kicked out of their homes before the world cup. 19 reasons why being a knicks fan is worse than being eaten alive by werewolves. 11 terrifyingly violent illustrations of classic childhood characters. check out this twitter that shares insanely beautiful historic photos. 10 cards against humanities cards you didn’t know you needed. why tina fey and amy poehler will once again be perfect golden globe hosts. the kittens & the sandals - a love story. house gop will address fate of 11 million undocumented immigrants in ‘principles’. 23 things the new person you’re dating is hiding. 15 jokes only downton fans would appreciate. 117 buffyverse characters, ranked from worst to best. tell us about yourself(ie): farrah abraham. why conservatives aren’t rushing to chris christie’s defense. dennis rodman spokesman: other players’ attitudes caused cnn meltdown in north korea. 23 animals who are completely over their new years resolutions. the 19 types of people you see at every college party. 13 reasons taylor swift should date uncle si from “duck dynasty”. ringo starr recorded the most adorable song for the new "powerpuff girls" show. 39 times neal caffrey was the sexiest man on tv. anne hathaway’s husband has no problem putting his mouth on her toes. finding an ’80s taiwan in “on such a full sea”. the definitive ranking of all 131 baby-sitter’s club cover outfits. 35 bizarre magazine ads. 5 date ideas to try this weekend. federal government should accept utah same-sex marriages, human rights campaign urges. see original artwork for "the little prince" in all its ragged glory. 20 things germaphobes are terrified of. play the communication choose your own adventure. 20 things you probably didn’t know about the wizarding world of harry potter. new jersey democrats who endorsed christie stand by their man. christie ally repeatedly takes 5th amendment during committee testimony on bridge scandal. proof that ian somerhalder and nina dobrev are the most perfect (not to mention sexiest) exes on the planet. can plants think?. these beautiful photos show what niagara falls looks like when it actually freezes. bastille storm the british embassy. a guy made his girlfriend this amazing music video because she couldn’t go backpacking with him. 21 things to do spring semester in boston before graduation. the official britpop album ranking, 1993-1997. 6 tweets that describe chris christie’s press conference. 9 tv shows you can stream only on amazon prime. five reasons to fill out the fafsa. the top 15 insane things that you won’t believe are in my apartment right now. a hilarious and honest look at what it’s like to work in a kitchen. creigh deeds, virginia politician brutally attacked by son, returns to state senate. christie on woman who died after slow ems response: “it’s awful….i can’t reverse time”. 6 models who are changing the ‘size’ game. 22 awesome things about being 22. sofia vergara and jimmy kimmel read mean internet comments about each other. 10 artists that are technically one hit wonders. 21 things you should throw away right now. 27 reasons cauliflower deserves your love and loyalty. breaking down minute-by-minute cable news’ coverage of the chris christie bridge scandal. daisy coleman’s alleged rapist gets two years of probation, no sexual assault charges. 18 señales de que eres el más  joven de la oficina. 15 stages of dealing with those scary january bills. the most depressing job on the starship enterprise. the 10 most iconic screen outfits of all time. 21 truly upsetting vintage recipes. chris christie: there may still have been a traffic study. this chinese millionaire has the most ridiculous business card. 34 preuves que l’australie est le plus bel endroit du monde. everything must go: visiting the last blockbuster video stores. britney spears is not fat so shut up and sit down. stop whatever it is you’re doing and watch this polar bear cub take his first steps. this church sign perfectly sums up how you feel about the cold weather. obama aide’s gambling gig makes trouble in london. ellen degeneres addresses your obsession with dry shampoo. new jersey gov. chris christie denies knowledge, involvement in bridge scandal. 12 soothing pictures of white whales dancing with people. is the internet’s most baffling mystery about to be solved?. 12 easy versions of the hard new years resolutions you’re realizing you can’t keep. 20 steps to living your life like lily tomlin. 18 reasons you should switch to the menstrual cup. why the christie mess is even worse for him than it seems. como é ser um filho único. 34 razones por las que australia es el lugar más hermoso en la tierra. 27 baby animals that will instantly make your day better. 14 of the most baffling journalist requests ever. this woman has the longest legs in russia. it’s so hot in rio de janeiro right now that zoo animals are being fed popsicles. the great xbox one voice command trolling epidemic has begun. christopher lloyd wore google glass while standing next to the delorean. 12 hours in the life of prince william as a new student. star trek blooper trailer. 25 reasons marks and spencer is heaven on earth. pug and baby can’t share a cookie. 19 lingering questions from archie comics. 19 reasons living alone is the best. 23 things you missed at the people’s choice awards. 14 of the best handmade “radiant orchid” stuff you can own. here’s proof that having a beard makes you more employable. conjoined whale calves found in mexican lagoon. proof that comic sans ruins everything. 8 ways to make the third "sex and the city "movie amazing. 21 dogs perfecting the art of air swimming. 23 filmes que fazem 20 anos em 2014. all the geeky derps you could ever want. 23 películas que cumplen 20 años en el 2014. the 22 types of rhyming dads. perrie edwards proves she’s the best fiancée ever by taking zayn malik to disneyland paris for his 21st. democratic senator stalls controversial obama ambassador. the 21 most delightful moments in the life of a british person. 19 perfect minimalist rap posters. a student sliced off his own penis while high on mephedrone. paragliders see pakistan from a new angle. a local pizzeria in florida serves pizza with python meat on it. working with bunnies. the assassins - documentary. i am not tina fey - that’s what tina fey would say. 21 signs you are in “scandal” withdrawal. 32 reasons kate middleton is the most perfect human being alive. why your obsession with inbox zero is ruining your life. 5 of the original pitches for 5 awesome tv shows. 25 coisas que acontecem quando você tem 25 anos. 25 cosas que pasan cuando tienes 25. inside the mind of a mafia hitman - the iceman tapes. anyone who has claimed housing benefit since before 1996 is exempt from the “bedroom tax”. 22 moments of pure smoothness on tumblr. the lego simpsons set has arrived and it looks amazing. stephen moffat says the whole of “sherlock” series 4 and 5 are plotted out. a definitive ranking of the 30 most attractive male soccer players. 18 ways juicing is taking over your life. 15 bizarre sci-fi and horror anthology shows you probably forgot about. 20 signs you’re obsessed with your cat. 10 reasons why you need to watch "true detective" on hbo. the university of texas’ first black football coach is its next best chance at racial reconciliation. the 19 times buzzfeed lamented the loss of surge. 15 amazing photos of philippines’ feast of the black nazarene. 42 ways to up your pancake game. miracles do come true: outkast is reuniting for coachella. siri changes answers about the movie “her,” is still hilarious. 17 symptômes de la déprime post-erasmus. ellen degeneres was the best part of this year’s people’s choice awards. 11 nfl players who sound like they belong in “game of thrones”. a love society will not accept, in pictures.
